
10-Q
1
q2fy2010q.htm
10-Q






Document


UNITED STATESSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWASHINGTON, D.C. 20549___________________FORM 10-QOR¨ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the transition period from   to  . Commission File Number:  001-34269_______________________SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP.(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)Delaware74-2657168(State or other jurisdiction of(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)incorporation or organization) 9220 Kirby Drive, Suite 500, Houston, Texas77054(Address of principal executive offices)(Zip Code) (713) 432-0300(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:Title of Each ClassTrading SymbolName of Each Exchange on Which RegisteredCommon Shares, $0.01 Par ValueSMEDThe NASDAQ Capital MarketIndicate by check mark if the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  ý  No  oIndicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes ý No  oIndicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.         Large Accelerated Filer o Accelerated Filer o Non-accelerated Filer o (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Emerging growth company o Smaller reporting company ý1If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. oIndicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12(b)-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes o No ýAs of January 31, 2020, there were 16,228,863 outstanding shares of the Registrant's common stock, par value $0.01 per share.23PART I – FINANCIAL INFORMATIONITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIESCONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS(Unaudited)(In thousands, except share and par value)The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.4SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIESCONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS(Unaudited)(In thousands, except per-share data)The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.5SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIESCONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS(Unaudited)(In thousands, except per-share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.6SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIESCONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY(Unaudited)(In thousands, except share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.7SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIESCONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS(Unaudited)(In thousands)The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.8SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)NOTE 1 - ORGANIZATION AND BACKGROUNDOrganization: The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the financial transactions and accounts of Sharps Compliance Corp. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Sharps Compliance, Inc. of Texas (dba Sharps Compliance, Inc.), Sharps e-Tools.com Inc. (“Sharps e-Tools”), Sharps Manufacturing, Inc., Sharps Environmental Services, Inc. (dba Sharps Environmental Services of Texas, Inc.), Sharps Safety, Inc., Alpha Bio/Med Services LLC, Bio-Team Mobile LLC and Citiwaste, LLC (collectively, “Sharps” or the “Company”). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation.Business: Sharps is a leading full-service national provider of comprehensive waste management services including medical, pharmaceutical and hazardous for small and medium quantity generators. The Company’s solutions include Sharps Recovery System™ (formerly Sharps Disposal by Mail System®), TakeAway Medication Recovery System™, MedSafe®, TakeAway Recycle System™, ComplianceTRACSM, SharpsTracer®, Sharps Secure® Needle Disposal System, Complete Needle™ Collection & Disposal System, TakeAway Environmental Return System™, Pitch-It IV™ Poles, Asset Return System and Spill Kit and Recovery System. The Company also offers its route-based pick-up services in a twenty-four (24) state region of the South, Southeast and Northeast portions of the United States.NOTE 2 - BASIS OF PRESENTATIONThe accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial information and with instructions to Form 10-Q and, accordingly, do not include all information and footnotes required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP") for complete financial statements. Additionally, the preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts. In the opinion of management, these interim condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation of the consolidated financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2019, the results of its operations for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, cash flows for the six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 and stockholders’ equity for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. The results of operations for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2019.9SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)NOTE 3 - SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIESRevenue Recognition: The components of revenues by solution which reflect a disaggregation of revenue by contract type are as follows (dollar amounts in thousands):(1)The Company’s other products include IV poles, accessories, containers, asset return boxes and other miscellaneous items with single performance obligations.Vendor Managed Inventory - The VMI program includes terms that meet the “bill and hold” criteria and as such are recognized when the order is placed, title has transferred, there are no acceptance provisions and amounts are segregated in the Company’s warehouse for the customer. During the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, the Company recorded revenue from inventory builds that are held in vendor managed inventory under these service agreements of $1.9 million and $2.4 million, respectively. During the three and six months ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded revenue from inventory builds that are held in vendor managed inventory under these service agreements of $0.6 million and $1.0 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019, $3.0 million and $1.9 million, respectively, of solutions sold through that date were held in vendor managed inventory pending fulfillment or shipment to patients of pharmaceutical manufacturers who offer these solutions to patients in an ongoing patient support program.Income Taxes: Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. A valuation allowance is established when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The establishment of a valuation allowance requires significant judgment and is impacted by various estimates. Both positive and negative evidence, as well as the objectivity and verifiability of that evidence, is considered in determining the appropriateness of recording a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance has been recorded to reduce the Company’s deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized and is based upon the uncertainty of the realization of certain federal and state deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes. The Company's deferred tax liability of $0.3 million includes $0.4 million of the accumulated tax expense related to the effect of indefinite lived assets, such as goodwill, which cannot be used as a source of future taxable income in evaluating the need for a valuation against deferred tax assets net of $0.1 million deferred tax asset for recoverable alternative minimum tax credits pursuant to the 2017 tax reform for which no valuation allowance is required. Prepaid and other current assets include realizable income taxes receivable associated with refundable alternative minimum tax credits of $0.2 million.Leases:  In February 2016, guidance for leases was issued, which supersedes the lease requirements previously followed by the Company. The new guidance requires balance sheet recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases. The new guidance also requires additional disclosures about the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The 10SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)Company adopted the standard on July 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective approach and recognized a cumulative effect adjustment to assets and liabilities for existing leases as of July 1, 2019. The Company recognized an additional operating lease liability of $4.6 million, with a corresponding right of use (“ROU”) asset of the same amount based on the present value of the payment amounts the Company expects to make over the expected term of the underlying leases, including renewal periods the Company is reasonably certain to exercise. The impact that the new accounting guidance had on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures included the following:•Approximately 50 leases have been identified, substantially all of which are classified as operating leases. For these real estate, field equipment, office equipment and vehicle operating leases, we recognized a new ROU asset and lease liability on our balance sheet.•The Company applied the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to (i) contracts containing leases, (ii) lease classification and (iii) initial direct costs. The Company did not adopt the practical expediency surrounding the use of hindsight to determine lease term, termination and purchase options, or in assessing impairment of ROU assets.•The Company made the accounting policy election to exclude the ROU asset and liability for short-term leases, or leases with terms of twelve months or less, therefore the lease payments will be recorded as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term with no ROU asset or lease liability recorded. •The Company has elected to exclude non-lease components of a lease arrangement from the ROU asset and lease liability for certain asset classes such as real estate and field equipment leases but includes non-lease components of a lease arrangement in the ROU asset and lease liability for office equipment and automobiles. Non-lease components for field equipment, which include vehicle maintenance costs which the Company estimates based on third party evidence, are excluded from the ROU asset and lease liability and are expensed each month.Operating leases are included in Operating Lease Right of Use Asset and Operating Lease Liability on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Operating lease asset and liability amounts are measured and recognized based on payment amounts the Company expects to make over the expected term of the underlying leases, including renewal periods the Company is reasonably certain to exercise. The lease liability for leases expected to be settled in twelve-months or less are classified as current liabilities. The general terms of the Company’s lease agreements require monthly payments. Some of the Company’s leases escalate either by a fixed or variable amount. Certain of the Company’s leases, which provide for variable lease payments based on index-based (i.e., the US Consumer Price Index) adjustments to lease payments over the term of the lease, will be measured at the lease rate effective at the commencement of the lease or upon adoption, as applicable. Because the Company does not generally have access to the rate implicit in its leases, the Company utilizes its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate for measuring the lease liability. At commencement, the operating lease ROU asset and lease liability are the same, with adjustments to the ROU asset for lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred. The Company reviews all options to extend, terminate or purchase its ROU assets at the commencement of the lease and on an ongoing basis and accounts for these options when they are reasonably certain of being exercised. The Company has determined that one lease arrangement's renewal option to extend lease terms from the original maturity of August 2021 to August 2031 is reasonably certain to be exercised due to the costs associated with relocating the lease to another location (including permitting cost as well as specialized equipment). The Company evaluates lease modifications as they occur and records such as a separate lease or an adjustment to the existing ROU asset and lease liability as appropriate.Accounts Receivable: Accounts receivable consist primarily of amounts due to the Company from normal business activities. Accounts receivable balances are determined to be delinquent when the amount is past due based on the contractual terms with the customer. The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect the likelihood of not collecting certain accounts receivable based on past collection history and specific risks identified among uncollected accounts. Accounts receivable are charged to the allowance for doubtful accounts when the Company determines that the receivable will not be collected and/or when the account has been referred to a third party collection agency. The Company has a history of minimal uncollectible accounts. Goodwill and Other Identifiable Intangible Assets: Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives and evaluated for impairment periodically whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their related carrying values may not be fully recoverable. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually. The Company generally performs its annual goodwill impairment analysis using a quantitative approach. The quantitative goodwill impairment test identifies the existence of potential impairment by comparing the fair value of our single reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, the reporting unit's goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The impairment charge recognized is limited to the amount of goodwill present in our single reporting unit. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether or not an impairment charge is 11SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)recognized and the amount of any such charge. The Company performs its annual impairment assessment of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. The Company determined that there was no impairment during the prior year ended June 30, 2019 and there have been no triggering events since that date that would warrant further impairment testing.Stock-Based Compensation: Stock-based compensation cost for options and restricted stock awarded to employees and directors is measured at the grant date, based on the calculated fair value of the award and is recognized as an expense over the requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the equity grant).Fair Value of Financial Instruments: The Company considers the fair value of all financial instruments, including cash, accounts receivable and accounts payable to approximate their carrying values at December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019 due to their short-term nature. The carrying value of the Company’s debt approximates fair value due to the market rates of interest. NOTE 4 – RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDSIn June 2016, guidance for credit losses of financial instruments was issued, which requires entities to measure credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized cost based on expected losses rather than incurred losses. The provisions of the new guidance are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 (effective July 1, 2023 for the Company), including interim periods within the reporting period, and early application is permitted. The Company is in the initial stages of evaluating the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures as well as evaluating the available transition methods. The Company will continue to evaluate the standard as well as additional changes, modifications or interpretations which may impact the Company.NOTE 5 – INCOME TAXESThe Company’s effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 was 7.4% and 8.1%, respectively, reflecting primarily deferred tax expense related to the effect of indefinite lived assets, such as goodwill, which cannot be used as a source of future taxable income in evaluating the need for a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets as well as estimated state income tax. The Company recorded estimated federal and state income tax expense of  $0.1 million for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. NOTE 6 – LEASESThe Company has operating leases for real estate, field equipment, office equipment and vehicles. Operating leases are included in Operating Lease ROU Asset and Operating Lease Liability on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, lease cost amounts, which reflect the fixed rent expense associated with operating leases, are as follows (dollar amounts in thousands):(1) Finance lease cost, short-term lease cost and variable lease cost were not significant during the period.12SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)During the six months ended December 31, 2019, the Company modified several of its leases to extend the terms of the leases. This resulted in a non-cash change to the ROU asset and lease liability upon remeasurement of $4.4 million which is included in the non-cash changes to ROU asset and lease liability shown below. The leases remain operating leases upon re-evaluation by the Company and there were no material direct costs incurred in any of the lease modifications or in any of the leases acquired during the period. During the six months ended December 31, 2019, the Company had the following cash and non-cash activities associated with leases (dollar amounts in thousands):As of December 31, 2019, the weighted average remaining lease term for all operating leases is 5.4 years. The weighted average discount rate associated with operating leases as of December 31, 2019 is 4.8%. The future payments due under operating leases as of December 31, 2019 is as follows (dollar amounts in thousands):As of June 30, 2019, future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases were $4.1 million in the aggregate, which consisted of the following: $2.1 million in 2020, $1.3 million in 2021, $0.5 million in 2022, $0.2 million in 2023 and $38 thousand in 2024.13SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)NOTE 7 - NOTES PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBTOn March 29, 2017, the Company entered into a credit agreement with a commercial bank which was subsequently amended on June 29, 2018 to extend the maturity date by two years to March 29, 2021 for the working capital portion of the Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”). The Credit Agreement provides for a $14.0 million credit facility, the proceeds of which may be utilized as follows: (i) $6.0 million for working capital, letters of credit (up to $2.0 million) and general corporate purposes and (ii) $8.0 million for acquisitions. Indebtedness under the Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the Company’s assets with advances outstanding under the working capital portion of the credit facility at any time limited to a Borrowing Base (as defined in the Credit Agreement) equal to 80% of eligible accounts receivable plus the lesser of (i) 50% of eligible inventory and (ii) $3.0 million. Advances under the acquisition portion of the credit facility are limited to 75% of the purchase price of an acquired company and convert to a five-year term note at the time of the borrowing. Borrowings bear interest at the greater of (a) zero percent or (b) the One Month ICE LIBOR plus a LIBOR Margin of 2.5%. The LIBOR Margin may increase to as high as 3.0% depending on the Company’s cash flow leverage ratio.  The interest rate as of December 31, 2019 was approximately 4.39%. The Company pays a fee of 0.25% per annum on the unused amount of the credit facility.On August 21, 2019, certain subsidiaries of the Company entered into a Construction and Term Loan Agreement and a Master Equipment Finance Agreement with its existing commercial bank (collectively, the “Loan Agreement”). The Loan Agreement provides for a five-year, $3.2 million facility, the proceeds of which are to be utilized for expenditures to facilitate future growth at the Company’s treatment facility in Carthage, Texas (the “Texas Treatment Facility”) as follows: (i) $2.0 million for planned improvements and (ii) $1.2 million for equipment. Indebtedness under the Loan Agreement is secured by the Company’s real estate investment and equipment at the Texas Treatment Facility. Advances under the Loan Agreement mature five years from the Closing Date ("August 21, 2019") with monthly payments based on a 20-year amortization for the real estate portion and on a 6-year amortization for the equipment portion of the Loan Agreement. Borrowings during the advancing period for the real estate portion and for the entire term of the equipment portion of the Loan Agreement bear interest computed at the One Month ICE LIBOR, plus two-hundred and fifty (250) basis points which was a rate of 4.39% on December 31, 2019. The Company has entered into a forward rate lock to fix the rate on the real estate portion of the Loan Agreement at the expiration of the advancing period at 4.15%.At December 31, 2019, long-term debt, bearing interest at 4.39%, consisted of the following (in thousands):The Company has availability under the Credit Agreement of $12.7 million ($5.9 million for the working capital and $6.8 million for the acquisitions) as of December 31, 2019.  The Company has availability under the Loan Agreement of $2.6 million ($1.8 million for the real estate and $0.8 million for the equipment) as of December 31, 2019. The Company also has $0.1 million in letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2019.The Credit and Loan Agreements contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain a maximum cash flow leverage ratio of no more than 3.0 to 1.0 and a minimum debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.15 to 1.00. The Credit and Loan Agreements also contain customary events of default which, if uncured, may terminate the agreements and require immediate repayment of all indebtedness to the lenders. The leverage ratio covenant may limit the amount available under the agreements. The Company was in compliance with all the financial covenants under the Credit and Loan Agreements as of December 31, 2019.14SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)Payments due on long-term debt subsequent to December 31, 2019 are as follows (in thousands):Twelve Months Ending December 31, 2020$550202158320222382023662024318 $1,755The Company utilizes performance bonds to support operations based on certain state requirements. At December 31, 2019, the Company had performance bonds outstanding covering financial assurance up to $1.0 million.NOTE 8 – STOCK-BASED COMPENSATIONStock-based compensation cost for options and restricted stock awarded to employees and directors is measured at the grant date, based on the calculated fair value of the award and is recognized as an expense over the requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the equity grant) net of applicable unvested shares forfeited.  During the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, stock-based compensation amounts are as follows (in thousands):NOTE 9 - EARNINGS PER SHAREBasic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares after considering the additional dilution related to common stock options and restricted stock. In computing diluted earnings per share, the outstanding common stock options are considered dilutive using the treasury stock method.The Company’s restricted stock awards are treated as outstanding for earnings per share calculations since these shares have full voting rights and are entitled to participate in dividends declared on common shares, if any, and undistributed earnings. As participating securities, the shares of restricted stock are included in the calculation of basic EPS using the two-class method. For the periods presented, the amount of earnings allocated to the participating securities was not material.15SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)The following information is necessary to calculate earnings per share for the periods presented (in thousands, except per-share data):NOTE 10 - EQUITY TRANSACTIONSDuring the three and six months ended December 31, 2019,  stock options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock were exercised as follows:As of December 31, 2019, there was $0.7 million of stock compensation expense related to non-vested awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.8 years.NOTE 11 – GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETSAt December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019, intangible assets consisted of the following (in thousands): 16SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(UNAUDITED)During both the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, amortization expense was $0.3 million. There have been no changes in the carrying amount of goodwill since June 30, 2019. As of December 31, 2019, future amortization of intangible assets is as follows (in thousands):Twelve Months Ending December 31, 2021$6122022598202356720243092025114Thereafter755 $2,955NOTE 12 – INVENTORYThe components of inventory are as follows (in thousands):The current portion of inventory includes amounts which the Company expects to sell in the next twelve month period based on historical sales.17ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSINFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSThis quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements and information relating to the Company and its subsidiaries that are based on the beliefs of the Company’s management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to the Company’s management. When used in this report, the words "will," "may," "position," "plan," "potential," "continue," "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "project" and "intend" and words or phrases of similar import, as they relate to the Company or its subsidiaries or Company management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions related to certain factors, including without limitations, competitive factors, general economic conditions, customer relations, relationships with vendors, governmental regulation and supervision, seasonality, distribution networks, product introductions and acceptance, technological change, changes in industry practices, onetime events and other factors described herein. Based upon changing conditions, should any one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected or intended. Consequently, no forward-looking statements can be guaranteed. When considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Actual results may vary materially. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. You should also understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and as such should not consider the preceding list or the risk factors to be a complete list of all potential risks and uncertainties. The Company does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.GENERALSharps Compliance Corp. is a leading national healthcare waste management provider specializing in regulated waste streams including medical, pharmaceutical and hazardous. Our services facilitate the safe and proper collection, transportation and environmentally-responsible treatment of regulated waste from customers in multiple healthcare-related markets. The markets we manage are small to medium-size generators of healthcare waste including professional offices (ambulatory surgical centers, physician groups, dentists and veterinarians), assisted living and long-term care facilities, government agencies, home health care, retail clinics and immunizing pharmacies. Additionally, our mailback solutions are positioned to manage waste generated in the home setting such as sharps, lancets and ultimate-user medications which generates business relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers and other markets to provide safe and proper disposal. Lastly, we maintain a strong distribution network for the sale of our solutions within the aforementioned markets. We assist our customers in determining solutions that best fit their needs for the collection, transportation and treatment of regulated medical, pharmaceutical and hazardous waste. Our differentiated approach provides our customers the flexibility to transport waste via direct route-based services, the United States Postal Service (“USPS”) or common carrier dependent upon quantity of waste generated, cost savings and facility needs. Our comprehensive services approach includes a single point of contact, consolidated billing, integrated manifest and proof of destruction repository. Furthermore, we provide comprehensive tracking and reporting tools that enable our customers to meet complex medical, pharmaceutical and hazardous waste disposal and compliance requirements. We believe the fully-integrated nature of our operations is a key factor leading to our success and continued recurring revenue growth. Our flagship products are the Sharps Recovery System™ and MedSafe® Medication Disposal System. These two product offerings account for over 50% of company revenues. The Sharps Recovery System is a comprehensive medical waste management mailback solution used in all markets due to its cost-effective nature and nationwide availability. The MedSafe solution meets the immediate needs of an increasing community risk associated with unused, ultimate-user, medications. Developed in accordance with the Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) implementation of the Secure and Responsible Drug Disposal Act of 2010 (the “Act”), MedSafe is a superior solution used in both private and public sectors to properly remove medications from communities and aid in the prevention of drug abuse. Over the past few years, the Company has made a series of investments to build a robust direct service, route-based, pickup offering for medical, pharmaceutical and hazardous waste. We have built an infrastructure capable of covering more than 70% of the U.S. population with permitted trucks, transfer stations and treatment facilities. We continue to add routes and the infrastructure required for operational efficiency to reach more customers and prospects directly. Our route-based services, matched with comprehensive mailback solutions, offer us a key differentiator in the market and the ability to capitalize on larger or regional contracts within the healthcare market. With the growth in infrastructure to support the route-based service, we have strategically added new distribution for faster and more cost-effective delivery of products to customers. We continue to develop new solutions to meet market demands. Over the past five years we have added a robust portfolio of ultimate-user medication disposal solutions for controlled substances, DEA-inventory controlled medication disposal for professionals, the Black Pail Program for disposal of most unused inventory of drugs, route-based services for medical, pharmaceutical and hazardous waste and the TakeAway Recycling System™ for single-use devices (SUDs) and the Hazardous Drug Spill Control Kit™, a USP <800> compliant spill kit for cleanup of chemotherapy and other hazardous drug spills.RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThe following analyzes changes in the condensed consolidated operating results and financial condition of the Company during the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. The following table sets forth for the periods indicated certain items from the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (dollars in thousands and percentages expressed as a percentage of revenues, unaudited): THREE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 AS COMPARED TO THREE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 Total revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2019 of $14.6 million increased compared to the total revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2018 of $12.4 million. The increase in revenue is mainly due to an increase in billings partially offset by current period revenue deferred as a contract liability net of product returns on sales in prior periods. The components of billings by market are as follows (in thousands, unaudited):*Represents the net impact of the revenue recognition adjustments to arrive at reported generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") revenue. Customer billings include all invoiced amounts for products shipped or services rendered during the period reported. GAAP revenue includes customer billings as well as numerous adjustments necessary to reflect, (i) the deferral of a portion of current period sales, (ii) recognition of certain revenue associated with product returned for treatment and destruction and (iii) provisions for certain rebates, product returns and discounts to customers which are accounted for as reductions in sales in the same period the related sales are recorded. Most of the difference between customer billings and GAAP revenue is reflected in the Company’s balance sheet as Contract Liability. See Note 3 “Significant Accounting Policies - Revenue Recognition” in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements”.18The components of billings by solution are as follows (in thousands except for percentages expressed as a percentage of total billings, unaudited):(1)The Company’s other products include IV poles, accessories, containers, asset return boxes and other miscellaneous items.(2)Represents the net impact of the revenue recognition adjustments required to arrive at reported GAAP revenue.  Customer billings include all invoiced amounts associated with products shipped or services rendered during the period reported.  GAAP revenue includes customer billings as well as numerous adjustments necessary to reflect, (i) the deferral of a portion of current period sales, (ii) recognition of certain revenue associated with products returned for treatment and destruction and (iii) provisions for certain rebates, product returns and discounts to customers which are accounted for as reductions in sales in the same period to related sales are recorded.  Most of the difference between customer billings and GAAP revenue is reflected in the Company’s balance sheet as Contract Liability.The increase in billings was mainly attributable to increased billings in the Pharmaceutical Manufacturer ($1.4 million), Professional ($0.5 million)  and Home Health Care ($0.4 million) markets.  The increase in Pharmaceutical Manufacturer billings was due primarily to inventory builds for several current patient support programs. The increase in Professional market billings reflected organic growth as the Company continued its focus on securing customers from the small to medium quantity generator sector made up of physicians, clinics, dentists, surgery centers, veterinarians and other healthcare professionals, who benefit from the cost-effective and convenient Sharps Recovery SystemTM and the Company’s route-based pick-up services.  The increase in Home Health Care market billings was due primarily to an expanded relationship with a major healthcare distributor. Billings for Mailbacks increased 10% to $8.9 million as compared to $8.1 million in the prior year period and represented 60% of total billings. Billings for Route-Based Pickup Services increased 19% to $2.5 million as compared to $2.1 million in the prior year period and represented 17% of total billings. Billings for Unused Medications increased 72% to $2.3 million as compared to $1.4 million in the prior year period and represented 16% of total billings.Cost of revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2019 of $9.7 million was 66.5% of revenues.  Cost of revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2018 of $8.4 million was 67.8% of revenues. The gross margin for the three months ended December 31, 2019 of 33.5% increased compared to the gross margin for the three months ended December 31, 2018 of 32.2%.  Gross margin was positively impacted for the three months ended December 31, 2019 due to higher revenues than in the prior period.Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were $3.6 million and $3.0 million, respectively. The increase in SG&A expense was due to continued investments in sales and marketing as well as increased professional fees incurred.The Company reported operating income of $1.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019 as compared to $0.8 million in the prior year period. Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross margin (discussed above). The Company reported income before income taxes of $1.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019 as compared to $0.8 million for the prior year period. Income before income taxes increased due to the increase in operating income (discussed above).The Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was 7.4% and 4.1%, respectively, primarily due to deferred tax expense related to indefinite lived assets, such as goodwill, which cannot be used as a source of future taxable income in evaluating the need for a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets and state income taxes.19The Company reported net income of $1.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019 as compared to a net income of $0.8 million for the prior year period. Net income increased due to the increase in the operating income (discussed above).The Company reported basic and diluted income per share of $0.06 for the three months ended December 31, 2019 as compared to $0.05 for the prior year period.  SIX MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 AS COMPARED TO SIX MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 Total revenues for the six months ended December 31, 2019 of $28.2 million increased by $5.5 million, or 24.1%, over the total revenues for the six months ended December 31, 2018 of $22.7 million. The increase in revenue is mainly due to increased billings in the Retail, Home Health Care, Pharmaceutical Manufacturer and Professional markets. The net increase in billings is partially offset by current year deferred revenue net of product returns on sales in prior periods. The components of billings by market are as follows (in thousands):*Represents the net impact of the revenue recognition adjustments to arrive at reported GAAP revenue. Customer billings include all invoiced amounts for products shipped or services rendered during the period reported. GAAP revenue includes customer billings as well as numerous adjustments necessary to reflect, (i) the deferral of a portion of current period sales, (ii) recognition of certain revenue associated with product returned for treatment and destruction and (iii) provisions for certain product returns and discounts to customers which are accounted for as reductions in sales in the same period the related sales are recorded. Most of the difference between customer billings and GAAP revenue is reflected in the Company’s balance sheet as Contract Liability.  See Note 3 “Significant Accounting Policies - Revenue Recognition” in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements”.20The components of billings by solution are as follows (in thousands):(1)The Company’s other products include IV poles, accessories, containers, asset return boxes and other miscellaneous items.(2)Represents the net impact of the revenue recognition adjustment required to arrive at reported GAAP revenue.  Customer billings include all invoiced amounts associated with products shipped or services rendered during the period reported.  GAAP revenue includes customer billings as well as numerous adjustments necessary to reflect, (i) the deferral of a portion of current period sales, (ii) recognition of certain revenue associated with products returned for treatment and destruction and (iii) provisions for certain product returns and discounts to customers which are accounted for as reductions in sales in the same period to related sales are recorded.  The difference between customer billings and GAAP revenue is reflected in the Company’s balance sheet as Contract Liability.The increase in billings was mainly due to an increase in the Retail ($1.9 million), Home Health Care ($1.8 million),  Pharmaceutical Manufacturer ($1.6 million) and Professional ($1.0 million) markets. The increase in Retail billings was due mainly to a $0.4 million increase in flu shot-related orders and a $1.3 million increase in billings for unused medication solutions including MedSafe. The increase in Home Health Care billings was due primarily to an expanded relationship with a major healthcare distributor. The increase in Pharmaceutical Manufacturer billings was due primarily to inventory builds for several current and new patient support programs.  The increase in Professional market billings reflected organic growth as the Company continued its focus on securing customers from the small to medium quantity generator sector, which consists largely of physicians, clinics, dentists, surgery centers, veterinarians and other healthcare professionals, who benefit from the cost-effective and convenient Sharps Recovery System™ and the Company’s route-based pick-up services. Billings for Mailbacks, which represented 57.2% of total billings, increased 21.3% to $16.7 million as compared to $13.7 million in the prior year period primarily related to the increase in billings related to Pharmaceutical Manufacturer patient support programs and flu related business. Billings for Route-Based Pickup Services increased 22.1% to $5.1 million as compared to $4.2 million in the prior year period and represented 17.6% of total billings. Billings for Unused Medications increased 57.4% to $4.7 million as compared to $3.0 million in the prior year period and represented 16.1% of total billings. Cost of revenues for the six months ended December 31, 2019 of $18.8 million was 66.8% of revenues. Cost of revenues for the six months ended December 31, 2018 of $15.3 million was 67.6% of revenues. The gross margin for the six months ended December 31, 2019 of 33.2% increased compared to the gross margin for the six months ended December 31, 2018 of 32.4%. Gross margin was positively impacted for the six months ended December 31, 2019 due to higher revenues than the prior year period. Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense for the six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was $7.1 million and $6.0 million, respectively. The increase in SG&A expense was due to continued investment in sales and marketing as well as increased professional fees incurred. The Company reported operating income of $1.8 million for the six months ended December 31, 2019 compared to operating income of $1.0 million for the six months ended December 31, 2018. Operating income increased primarily due to higher revenue and higher gross margin (discussed above). The Company reported income before income taxes of $1.8 million for the six months ended December 31, 2019 versus income before income taxes of $0.9 million for the six months ended December 31, 2018. Income before income taxes increased due to the increase in operating income (discussed above).The Company’s effective tax rate for the six months ended December 31, 2019 was 8.1% and 7.6%, respectively, primarily due to deferred tax expense related to indefinite lived assets, such as goodwill, which cannot be used as a source of future taxable income in evaluating the need for a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets and state income taxes.21The Company reported net income of $1.7 million for the six months ended December 31, 2019 compared to net income of $0.8 million for the six months ended December 31, 2018.  Income before taxes increased due to the increase in operating income (discussed above).The Company reported basic and diluted income per share of $0.10 for the six months ended December 31, 2019 versus basic and diluted income per share of $0.05 for the six months ended December 31, 2018.  Basic and diluted income per share increased due to the increase in net income (discussed above).PROSPECTS FOR THE FUTUREThe Company continues to focus on core markets and solution offerings that fuel growth. Its key markets include healthcare facilities, pharmaceutical manufacturers, home healthcare providers, assisted living/long-term care, retail pharmacies and clinics, and the professional market which is comprised of physicians, dentists, surgery centers and veterinary practices. These markets require cost-effective services for managing medical, pharmaceutical and hazardous waste. The Company believes its growth opportunities are supported by the following:•A large professional market that consists of dentists, veterinarians, clinics, private practice physicians, urgent care facilities, ambulatory surgical centers and other healthcare facilities. This regulated market consists of small to medium quantity generators of medical, pharmaceutical and hazardous waste where we can offer a lower cost to service with solutions to match individual facility needs. The Company addresses this market from two directions: (i) field sales which focus on larger-dollar and nationwide opportunities where we can integrate the route-based pickup service along with our mailback solutions to create a comprehensive medical waste management offering and (ii) inside and online sales which focus on the individual or small group professional offices, government agencies, smaller retail pharmacies and clinics and assisted living/long-term care facilities. The Company is able to compete more aggressively in the medium quantity generator market with the addition of route-based services where the mailback may not be as cost effective. The Company’s route-based business provides direct service to areas encompassing over 70% of the U.S. population.•The changing demographics of the U.S. population – according to the U.S. Census Bureau, 2012 Population Estimates and National Projections, one out of five Americans will be 65 years or older by 2030, which will increase the need for cost-effective medical waste management solutions, especially in the long-term care and home healthcare markets. With multiple solutions for managing regulated healthcare-related waste, the Company delivers value as a single-source provider with blended mailback and route-based pickup services matched to the waste volumes of each facility.•The passage of regulations for ultimate user medication disposal allows the Company to offer new solutions (MedSafe and TakeAway Medication Recovery System envelopes) that meet the regulations for ultimate user controlled substances disposal (Schedules II-V) to retail pharmacies. Additionally, with the new regulations, the Company is able to provide the MedSafe and TakeAway Medication Recovery Systems to assisted living and hospice to address a long standing issue within long-term care.22•Local, state and federal agencies have growing needs for solutions to manage medical and pharmaceutical waste — the Company's Sharps Recovery System is ideal for as-needed disposal of sharps and other small quantities of medical waste generated within government buildings, schools and communities. The Company also provides TakeAway Medication Recovery System envelopes and MedSafe solutions to government agencies in need of proper and regulatory compliant medication disposal.  The federal government, state agencies and non-profits are recognizing the need to fund programs that address prevention as it pertains to the opioid crisis.  MedSafe and mailback envelopes for proper medication disposal are being funded for prevention programs.•With an increased number of self-injectable medication treatments and local regulations, the Company believes its flagship product, the Sharps Recovery System, continues to offer the best option for proper sharps disposal at an affordable price. The Company delivers comprehensive services to pharmaceutical manufacturers that sell high-dollar, self-injectable medications, which include data management, compliance reporting, fulfillment, proper containment with disposal, branding and conformity with applicable regulations. In addition, the Company provides self-injectors with online and retail purchase options of sharps mailback systems, such as the Sharp Recovery System and Complete Needle Collection & Disposal System, respectively. •A heightened interest by many commercial companies who are looking to improve workplace safety with proper sharps disposal and unused medication disposal solutions — the Company offers a variety of services to meet these needs, including the Sharps Secure Needle Disposal System, Sharps Recovery System, Spill Kits and TakeAway Medication Recovery System envelopes.•The Company continually develops new solution offerings such as ultimate user medication disposal (MedSafe and TakeAway Medication Recovery System), mailback services for DEA registrant expired inventory of controlled substances (TakeAway Medication Recovery System DEA Reverse Distribution for Registrants) and shipback services for collection and recycling of single-use medical devices from surgical centers and other healthcare facilities (TakeAway Recycle System).•The Company’s strong financial position with a cash balance of $5.3 million, debt of $1.8 million and additional availability under the Credit and Loan Agreements. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash FlowCash flow has historically been primarily influenced by demand for products and services, operating margins and related working capital needs as well as more strategic activities including acquisitions, stock repurchases and fixed asset additions. Cash increased by $0.8 million to $5.3 million at December 31, 2019 from $4.5 million at June 30, 2019 due to the following:Cash Flows from Operating Activities - Cash flow from operating activities increased primarily due to an increase in operating income, decrease in inventory of $0.6 million, increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of  $0.6 million and an increase in net contract liabilities of $1.0 million offset by an increase in accrued receivable of $3.1 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities - Cash flow from operating activities is offset by cash used in investing activities for normal permitting and capital expenditures for plant and equipment additions of $1.3 million, including approximately $1.0 million for expenditures at the Company's treatment facility in Carthage, Texas..Cash Flows from Financing Activities - Cash flow from financing activities provided an increase in cash from proceeds from long-term debt of $0.6 million offset by the repayment of debt of $0.3 million.Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsThe Company was not a party to any off-balance sheet transactions as defined in Item 303 of Regulation S-K for the six months ended December 31, 2019 and the year ended June 30, 2019. 23Credit FacilityOn March 29, 2017, the Company entered into a credit agreement with a commercial bank which was subsequently amended on June 29, 2018 to extend the maturity date by two years to March 29, 2021 for the working capital portion of the Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”). The Credit Agreement provides for a $14.0 million credit facility, the proceeds of which may be utilized as follows: (i) $6.0 million for working capital, letters of credit (up to $2.0 million) and general corporate purposes and (ii) $8.0 million for acquisitions. Indebtedness under the Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the Company’s assets with advances outstanding under the working capital portion of the credit facility at any time limited to a Borrowing Base (as defined in the Credit Agreement) equal to 80% of eligible accounts receivable plus the lesser of (i) 50% of eligible inventory and (ii) $3.0 million. Advances under the acquisition portion of the credit facility are limited to 75% of the purchase price of an acquired company and convert to a five-year term note at the time of the borrowing. Borrowings bear interest at the greater of (a) zero percent or (b) the One Month ICE LIBOR plus a LIBOR Margin of 2.5%. The LIBOR Margin may increase to as high as 3.0% depending on the Company’s cash flow leverage ratio.  The interest rate as of December 31, 2019 was approximately 4.39%. The Company pays a fee of 0.25% per annum on the unused amount of credit facility. At December 31, 2019, $1.2 million was outstanding related to the acquisition portion of the credit facility.  No amounts were outstanding under the working capital portion of the credit facility at December 31, 2019. On August 21, 2019, certain subsidiaries of the Company entered into a Construction and Term Loan Agreement and a Master Equipment Finance Agreement with its existing commercial bank (collectively, the “Loan Agreement”). The Loan Agreement provides for a five-year, $3.2 million facility, the proceeds of which are to be utilized for expenditures to facilitate future growth at the Company’s treatment facility in Carthage, Texas (the “Texas Treatment Facility”) as follows: (i) $2.0 million for planned improvements and (ii) $1.2 million for equipment. Indebtedness under the Loan Agreement is secured by the Company’s real estate investment and equipment at the Texas Treatment Facility. Advances under the Loan Agreement mature five years from the Closing Date ("August 21, 2019") with monthly payments based on a 20-year amortization for the real estate portion and on a 6-year amortization for the equipment portion of the Loan Agreement. Borrowings during the advancing period for the real estate portion and for the entire term of the equipment portion of the Loan Agreement bear interest computed at the One Month ICE LIBOR, plus two-hundred and fifty (250) basis points which was a rate of 4.64% on December 31, 2019. The Company has entered into a forward rate lock to fix the rate on the real estate portion of the Loan Agreement at the expiration of the advancing period at 4.15%. At December 31, 2019, $0.3 million was outstanding related to the equipment portion of the Loan Agreement. The Company has availability under the Credit Agreement of approximately $12.7 million ($5.9 million for the working capital and $6.8 million for the acquisitions) as of December 31, 2019. The Company has availability under the Loan Agreement of $2.6 million ($1.8 million for the real estate and $0.8 million for the equipment) as of December 31, 2019. The Company also had $0.1 million in letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2019. The Credit and Loan Agreements contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain a maximum cash flow leverage ratio of no more than 3.0 to 1.0 and a minimum debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.15 to 1.00. The Credit and Loan Agreements also contain customary events of default which, if uncured, may terminate the agreements and require immediate repayment of all indebtedness to the lenders. The leverage ratio covenant may limit the amount available under the Credit and Loan Agreements. The Company utilizes performance bonds to support operations based on certain state requirements. At December 31, 2019, the Company had performance bonds outstanding covering financial assurance up to $1.0 million.Management believes that the Company’s current cash resources (cash on hand and cash flows from operations) will be sufficient to fund operations for at least the next twelve months.24CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIESCritical accounting policies are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties and could potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. The Company's critical accounting policies are included in the discussion entitled Critical Accounting Policies in Item 7. Management's Discussions and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, as filed with the SEC. There were no material changes to the critical accounting policies disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K other than the implementation of the new lease standard described in Note 3 and Note 6 to the condensed consolidated financial statements.ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and ProceduresThe Company maintains “disclosure controls and procedures,” as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act, that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company conducted an evaluation (the “Evaluation”), under the supervision and with the participation of the CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (“Disclosure Controls”) as of December 31, 2019, pursuant to Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based upon this Evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that our Disclosure Controls were effective as of December 31, 2019.Changes in Internal Control During the three months ended December 31, 2019, there were no changes in the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act), that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.PART II – OTHER INFORMATION25ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSFrom time to time, the Company is involved in legal proceedings and litigation in the ordinary course of business.  In the opinion of management, the outcome of such matters is not anticipated to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations.ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRefer to Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2019 for the Company’s risk factors. During the period ended December 31, 2019, there have been no changes to the Company’s risk factors.ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS.None26ITEM 6. EXHIBITSITEMS 3, 4 AND 5 ARE NOT APPLICABLE AND HAVE BEEN OMITTED.SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. REGISTRANT: SHARPS COMPLIANCE CORP.  Dated: February 4, 2020By: /s/ DAVID P. TUSA David P. Tusa Chief Executive Officer and President (Principal Executive Officer)Dated: February 4, 2020By: /s/ DIANA P. DIAZ Diana P. Diaz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)27 



