
10-Q
1
f10q1119_tsrinc.htm
QUARTERLY REPORT



 
 
UNITED
STATES
SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington,
DC 20549
 
FORM
10-Q
 
☒ Quarterly
Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
For
the quarterly period ended November 30, 2019
 
☐
Transition report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
For
the transition period
from                     
 to                     
 
Commission
File Number: 0-8656
 
TSR,
Inc.

 
(Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 


Delaware
 
13-2635899

(State
    or other jurisdiction of
 
(I.R.S.
    Employer 

Incorporation
    or organization)
 
Identification
    No.)

 
400
Oser Avenue, Hauppauge, NY 11788
 

(Address
of principal executive offices)
 
631-231-0333
 

(Registrant’s
telephone number)
 
Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act:
 


Title
    of each class
 
Trading
    Symbol(s)
 
Name
    of each exchange on which registered

Common
    Stock, par value $0.01 per share
 
TSRI
 
NASDAQ
    Capital Market

Preferred
    Share Purchase Rights1
 
--
 
--

 

1Registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act pursuant to a Form 8-A filed by the registrant on March 15, 2019. Until the Distribution
Date (as defined in the registrant’s Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of September 3, 2019), the Preferred
Share Purchase Rights will be transferred with and only with the shares of the registrant’s Common Stock to which the Preferred
Share Purchase Rights are attached.

 
Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. ☒ Yes ☐ No
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). ☒ Yes ☐ No
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting
company, or an emerging growth company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer”, “accelerated filer”,
“smaller reporting company”, and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):
 


Large
    Accelerated Filer ☐
Accelerated
Filer ☐


Non-Accelerated
    Filer ☐
Smaller
    Reporting Company ☒


Emerging
Growth Company ☐
 


 
If
an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for
complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). ☐ Yes ☒
No
 
As
of December 31, 2019, there were 1,962,062 shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, issued and outstanding.
 

 
 

 
 

 
TSR,
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
INDEX
 

 


i
 

 

Part
                          I.Financial
Information

 

Item
                              1.Financial
Statements

 
TSR,
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 

 
The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 

Page 1
 

 
TSR,
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
For
The Three Months and Six Months Ended November 30, 2019 and 2018
(UNAUDITED)
 

 
The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 


Page 2
 

 
TSR,
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY
For
The Three Months and Six Months Ended November 30, 2019 and 2018
(UNAUDITED)
 

 
The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 


Page 3
 

 
TSR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For The Six Months Ended November 30, 2019 and 2018
(UNAUDITED)
 

 
The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 

Page 4
 

 
TSR,
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES
TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
November
30, 2019
(Unaudited)
 

1.Basis
                                         of Presentation
 
The
accompanying condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of TSR, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”).
All significant inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The condensed balance sheet as
of May 31, 2019, which has been derived from audited financial statements, and the unaudited interim financial statements have
been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America applying to interim
financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q of Regulation S-X of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly,
certain information and footnote disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
and normally included in the Company’s annual financial statements have been condensed or omitted. These condensed consolidated
interim financial statements as of and for the three months and six months ended November 30, 2019 are unaudited; however, in
the opinion of management, such statements include all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present
fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented. The
results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results that might be expected for
future interim periods or for the full year ending May 31, 2020. These condensed consolidated interim financial statements should
be read in conjunction with the Company’s consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2019.
 

2.Net
                                         Income (Loss) Per Common Share
 
Basic
net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common stockholders of TSR, Inc. by
the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. The Company had no stock options or other common stock equivalents outstanding
during any of the periods presented.
 

3.Cash
                                         and Cash Equivalents
 
The
Company considers short-term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase to be cash
equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents were comprised of the following as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019:
 

 

4.Revenue
                                         Recognition
 
Effective
June 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers
(Topic 606), using the modified retrospective method. This update outlined a comprehensive new revenue recognition model designed
to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard also requires additional quantitative and qualitative
disclosures. The adoption allows companies to apply the new revenue standard to reporting periods beginning in the year the standard
is first implemented, while prior periods continue to be reported in accordance with previous accounting guidance. Since the adoption
of Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606 did not have a significant impact on the recognition of revenue,
the Company did not have an opening retained earnings adjustment.
 

Page 5
 

 
TSR,
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES
TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
November
30, 2019
(Unaudited)
 
In
March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Consideration
(Topic 606). This update contains guidance on principal versus agent assessments when a third party is involved in providing
goods or services to a customer. It specifies that an entity is a principal, and thus records revenue on a gross basis, if it
controls a good or service before transferring the good or service to the customer. An entity is an agent, and thus records revenue
on a net basis, if it arranges for a good or service to be provided by another entity. The Company adopted this ASU on June 1,
2018 as part of the adoption of ASC 606 and it did not have a significant impact.
 
In
May 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-12, Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients (Topic 606). This update provides
certain clarifications to reduce potential diversity and to simplify the standard. The amendments in ASU 2016-12 clarify the following
key areas: assessing collectibility; presenting sales taxes and other similar taxes collected from customers; noncash consideration;
contract modifications at transition; completed contracts at transition; and disclosing the accounting change in the period of
adoption. The Company adopted this ASU on June 1, 2018 as part of the adoption of ASC 606 and it did not have a significant impact.
 
Revenues
are recognized as control of the promised service is transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration expected
in exchange for the services. Revenues from contract assignments are recognized over time, based on hours worked by the Company’s
contract professionals. The performance of the requested service over time is the single performance obligation for assignment
revenues. Certain customers may receive discounts (e.g., volume discounts, rebates, prompt-pay discounts) and adjustments to the
amounts billed. These discounts, rebates and adjustments are considered variable consideration. Volume discounts are the largest
component of variable consideration and are estimated using the most likely amount method prescribed by ASC 606, contracts terms
and estimates of revenue. Revenues are recognized net of variable consideration to the extent that it is probable that a significant
reversal of revenues will not occur in subsequent periods. Payment terms vary and the time between invoicing and when payment
is due is not significant. There are no financing components to the Company’s arrangements. There are no incremental costs
to obtain contracts and costs to fulfill contracts are expensed as incurred. The Company’s operations are primarily located
in the United States.
 
The
Company recognizes most of its revenue on a gross basis when it acts as a principal in its transactions. The Company has direct
contractual relationships with its customers, bears the risks and rewards of its arrangements, has the discretion to select the
contract professionals and establish the price for the services to be provided. Additionally, the Company retains control over
its contract professionals based on its contractual arrangements. The Company primarily provides services through its employees
and to a lesser extent, through subcontractors; the related costs are included in cost of sales. The Company includes billable
expenses (out-of-pocket reimbursable expenses) in revenue and the associated expenses are included in cost of sales.
 

5.Certificates
                                         of Deposit and Marketable Securities
 
The
Company has characterized its investments in certificates of deposit and marketable securities, based on the priority of the inputs
used to value the investments, into a three-level fair value hierarchy. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to
quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1), and lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level
3). If the inputs used to measure the investments fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the categorization is based on
the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument.
 
Investments
recorded in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets are categorized based on the inputs to valuation techniques
as follows:
 
Level
1- These are investments where values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets in an active market the Company
has the ability to access.
 
Level
2- These are investments where values are based on quoted market prices that are not active or model derived valuations in which
all significant inputs are observable in active markets.
 
Level
3- These are investments where values are derived from techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
 

Page 6
 

 
TSR,
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES
TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
November
30, 2019
(Unaudited)
 
The
following are the major categories of assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019
using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1), significant other observable inputs (Level 2) and significant
unobservable inputs (Level 3):
 

 

 
Based
upon the Company’s intent and ability to hold its certificates of deposit to maturity (which maturities range up to twelve
months at purchase), such securities have been classified as held-to-maturity and are carried at amortized cost, which approximates
market value. The Company’s equity securities are classified as trading securities, which are carried at fair value, as
determined by quoted market prices, which is a Level 1 input, as established by the fair value hierarchy. The related unrealized
gains and losses are included in earnings. The Company’s certificates of deposit and marketable securities at November 30,
2019 and May 31, 2019 are summarized as follows:
 

 

 
The
Company’s investments in marketable securities consist primarily of investments in certificates of deposit and equity securities.
Market values were determined for each individual security in the investment portfolio. When evaluating the investments for other-than-temporary
impairment, the Company reviews factors such as length of time and extent to which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial
condition of the issuer, and the Company’s ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time, which may be
sufficient for anticipated recovery in market values.
 

Page 7
 

 
TSR,
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES
TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
November
30, 2019
(Unaudited)
 

6.Fair
                                         Value of Financial Instruments
 
ASC
Topic 825, Financial Instruments, requires disclosure of the fair value of certain financial instruments. For cash and
cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts and other payables, accrued liabilities and advances from customers, the amounts
presented in the condensed consolidated financial statements approximate fair value because of the short-term maturities of these
instruments.
 

7.Equity
 
Common
Stock Transactions
 
On
July 24, 2018, the Company became aware that Joseph F. Hughes and Winifred Hughes filed Amendments to Schedule 13D (the “Schedules
13D”) with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on that date, in which Joseph F.
Hughes and Winifred Hughes disclosed that they had collectively sold 819,491 shares of the Company’s Common Stock jointly
held by them in a privately-negotiated transaction to Zeff Capital, L.P., QAR Industries, Inc. and Fintech Consulting LLC. The
Schedules 13D stated that the sale closed on July 23, 2018. Joseph F. Hughes was the former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of the Company. Zeff Capital, L.P., QAR Industries, Inc. and Fintech Consulting LLC acquired, in the aggregate, 41.8% of the Company’s
issued and outstanding Common Stock from Joseph F. Hughes and Winifred Hughes in this transaction. Amendments to Schedule 13D
previously filed by Joseph F. Hughes and Winifred Hughes on July 17, 2018 attached an exhibit wherein it was stated that prior
to the transaction described above, Zeff Capital, L.P. owned 77,615 shares or approximately 4% of the Company’s issued and
outstanding Common Stock.
 
The
Company became aware on July 30, 2018 that Fintech Consulting LLC and Tajuddin Haslani filed a Schedule 13D with the SEC disclosing
beneficial ownership of 376,100 shares of Common Stock, which represents approximately 19.2% of the Company’s issued and
outstanding Common Stock.
 
The
Company became aware on August 23, 2018 that Zeff Capital, L.P., Zeff Holding Company, LLC and Daniel Zeff filed an Amendment
to Schedule 13D with the SEC disclosing the additional purchase by Zeff Capital, L.P. of an aggregate of 55,680 shares of Common
Stock. As a result of these additional purchases of Common Stock, Zeff Capital, L.P., Zeff Holding Company, LLC and Daniel Zeff
beneficially own a total of 437,774 shares of Common Stock, which represents approximately 22.3% of the Company’s issued
and outstanding Common Stock.
 
The
Company became aware on August 28, 2018 that QAR Industries, Inc. and Robert Fitzgerald filed an Amendment to Schedule 13D with
the SEC disclosing the additional purchase by QAR Industries, Inc. of an aggregate of 4,070 shares of Common Stock. As a result
of these additional purchases of Common Stock, QAR Industries, Inc. and Robert Fitzgerald beneficially own a total of 143,900
shares of Common Stock, which represents approximately 7.3% of the Company’s issued and outstanding Common Stock. The Company
became aware on September 10, 2019 that QAR Industries, Inc. and Robert Fitzgerald filed an Amendment to Schedule 13D with the
SEC disclosing beneficial ownership of an aggregate of 139,200 shares of Common Stock, which represents approximately 7.1% of
the Company’s issued and outstanding Common Stock.
 
As
a result of the transactions described above, Zeff Capital, L.P., QAR Industries, Inc. and Fintech Consulting LLC are the beneficial
owners of an aggregate of 953,074 shares of Common Stock, which represents approximately 48.6% of the Company’s issued and
outstanding Common Stock.
 

Page 8
 

 
TSR,
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES
TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
November
30, 2019
(Unaudited)
 
Rights
Plan / Preferred Stock
 

On
August 29, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (a “Right”)
for each share of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (“Common Stock”), of the Company outstanding on August 29,
2018 (the “Record Date”) to the stockholders of record on that date. In connection with the distribution of the Rights,
the Company entered into a Rights Agreement (the “Rights Agreement”), dated as of August 29, 2018, between the Company
and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as Rights Agent. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from
the Company one one-hundredth of a share of Class A Preferred Stock, Series One, par value $0.01 per share (“Preferred Stock”),
of the Company at a price of $24.78 per one one-hundredth of a share of Preferred Stock represented by a Right (the “Purchase
Price”), subject to adjustment.
 
On
August 30, 2019, the Company entered into a settlement and release agreement (the “Settlement Agreement”) with Zeff
Capital, L.P., Zeff Holding Company, LLC, Daniel Zeff, QAR Industries, Inc., Robert Fitzgerald, Fintech Consulting LLC and Tajuddin
Haslani (collectively, the “Investor Parties”), pursuant to which
the Company agreed to, among other things, amend and restate the Rights Agreement to provide that a “Distribution Date”
(as defined below) shall not occur as a result of any request by any of the Investor Parties calling for a special meeting pursuant
to Article II, Section 5 of the Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company in accordance with the terms of the Settlement Agreement.
(See Note 8, “Other Matters.”)
 
Distribution
Date; Exercisability; Expiration
 
Initially,
the Rights will be attached to all certificates for shares of Common Stock and no separate certificates evidencing the Rights
(“Rights Certificates”) will be issued. Until the Distribution Date, the Rights will be transferred with and only
with shares of Common Stock. As long as the Rights are attached to the shares of Common Stock, the Company will issue one Right
with each new share of Common Stock so that all such shares of Common Stock will have Rights attached.
 
The
Rights will separate and begin trading separately from the Common Stock, and Rights Certificates will be issued to evidence the
Rights, on the earlier to occur of (a) the Close of Business (as such term is defined in the Rights Agreement) on the tenth
day following a public announcement, or the public disclosure of facts indicating, that a Person (as such term is defined in the
Rights Agreement), group of affiliated or associated Persons or any other Person with whom such Person is Acting in Concert (as
defined below) has acquired Beneficial Ownership (as defined below) of 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock (an “Acquiring
Person”) (or, in the event an exchange is effected in accordance with Section 27 of the Rights Agreement and the Board
of Directors determines that a later date is advisable, then such later date) or (b) the Close of Business on the tenth Business
Day (as such term is defined in the Rights Agreement) (or such later date as may be determined by action of the Board of Directors
prior to such time as any Person becomes an Acquiring Person) following the commencement of a tender offer or exchange offer the
consummation of which would result in the Beneficial Ownership by a Person or group of 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock
(the earlier of such dates, the “Distribution Date”). As soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, unless the
Rights are recorded in book-entry or other uncertificated form, the Company will prepare and cause the Right Certificates to be
sent to each record holder of Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the Distribution Date.
 
An
“Acquiring Person” will not include (i) the Company, (ii) any Subsidiary (as such term is defined in the
Rights Agreement) of the Company, (iii) any employee benefit plan or employee stock plan of the Company or any Subsidiary of the
Company, or any trust or other entity organized, appointed, established or holding Common Stock for or pursuant to the terms of
any such plan, or (iv) any Person who or which, at the time of the first public announcement of the Rights Agreement, is
a Beneficial Owner of 5% or more of the Common Shares then outstanding (a “Grandfathered Stockholder”). However, if
a Grandfathered Stockholder becomes, after such time, the Beneficial Owner of any additional shares of Common Stock (regardless
of whether, thereafter or as a result thereof, there is an increase, decrease or no change in the percentage of shares of Common
Stock then outstanding beneficially owned by such Grandfathered Stockholder) then such Grandfathered Stockholder shall be deemed
to be an Acquiring Person unless, upon such acquisition of Beneficial Ownership of additional shares of Common Stock, such Person
is not the Beneficial Owner of 5% or more of the Common Stock then outstanding. In addition, upon the first decrease of a Grandfathered
Stockholder’s Beneficial Ownership below 5%, such Grandfathered Stockholder will
cease to be a Grandfathered Stockholder. In the event that after the time of the first public announcement of the Rights
Agreement, any agreement, arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any Grandfathered Stockholder is deemed to be the
Beneficial Owner of Common Stock expires, terminates or no longer confers any benefit to or imposes any obligation on the
Grandfathered Stockholder, any direct or indirect replacement, extension or substitution of such agreement, arrangement or
understanding with respect to the same or different shares of Common Stock that confers Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock
shall be considered the acquisition of Beneficial Ownership of additional shares of Common Stock by the Grandfathered
Stockholder and render such Grandfathered Stockholder an Acquiring Person for purposes of the Rights Agreement unless, upon
such acquisition of Beneficial Ownership of additional shares of Common Stock, such Person is not the Beneficial Owner of 5%
or more of the Common Stock then outstanding.
 

Page 9
 

 
TSR,
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES
TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
November
30, 2019
(Unaudited)
 
The
Rights are not exercisable until the Distribution Date. The Rights will expire on the Close of Business on August 29, 2021 (the
“Expiration Date”).
 
Redemption
 
At
any time prior to the Close of Business on the earlier of (a) the tenth day following the Stock Acquisition Date or (b) the Expiration
Date, the Board of Directors may redeem the Rights in whole, but not in part, at a price of $0.01 per Right (the “Redemption
Price”). The “Stock Acquisition Date” is the first date on which there is a public announcement by the Company
or an Acquiring Person that an Acquiring Person has become such, or such earlier date as a majority of the Board of Directors
becomes aware of the existence of an Acquiring Person. The redemption of the Rights may be made effective at such time, on such
basis and with such conditions as the Board of Directors in its sole discretion may establish. Immediately upon the action of
the Board of Directors ordering the redemption of the Rights, the right to exercise the Rights will terminate and the only right
of the holders of Rights will be to receive the Redemption Price.
 
Preferred
Stock Rights
 
The
Preferred Stock will not be redeemable. Each share of Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by
the Board of Directors, (a) cash dividends in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to 100 times the aggregate
per share amount of all cash dividends declared or paid on the Common Stock and (b) a preferential quarterly cash dividend (the
“Preferential Dividends”) in an amount equal to $50.00 per share of Preferred Stock less the per share amount of all
cash dividends declared on the Preferred Stock pursuant to clause (a) of this sentence. Each share of Preferred Stock will entitle
the holder thereof to 100 votes per share, voting together with the holders of the Common Stock as a single class, except as otherwise
provided in the Certificate of Designations of Class A Preferred Stock Series One filed by the Company with the Delaware Secretary
of State or the Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or Amended and Restated By-laws.
In the event of any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged
for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each outstanding share of
Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged for or changed into the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash
and/or other property (payable in like kind), as the case may be, for which or into which each share of Common Stock is changed
or exchanged, multiplied by 100. Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, (a)
no distribution shall be made to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock unless the holders of the
Preferred Stock shall have received the greater of (i) $100 per share of Preferred Stock plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid
dividends and distributions thereon or (ii) an amount equal to 100 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders
of the Common Stock, and (b) no distribution shall be made to the holders of stock ranking on a parity upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up with the Preferred Stock unless simultaneously therewith distributions are made ratably on the holders of the Preferred
Stock and all other shares of such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of shares of Preferred
Stock are entitled under clause (a)(i) of this sentence and to which the holders of such parity shares are entitled, in each case
upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up.
 
The
foregoing rights are protected by customary anti-dilution provisions.
 

Page 10
 

 
TSR,
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES
TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
November
30, 2019
(Unaudited)
 
The
foregoing description of the rights of the Preferred Stock does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by
reference to the Certificate of Designations of Class A Preferred Stock Series One.
 
Rights
of Holders
 
Until
a Right is exercised, the holder thereof, as such, will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company, including, without limitation,
the right to vote or to receive dividends.
 
Amended
and Restated Rights Agreement
 
Pursuant
to the Settlement Agreement, the Company amended and restated the Rights Agreement on September 3, 2019 to confirm that a Distribution
Date (as defined in the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement) shall not occur as a result of any request by any of the Investor
Parties for a special meeting of the Company’s stockholders.
 

8.Other
                                         Matters
 
From
time to time, the Company is party to various lawsuits, some involving material amounts. Management is not aware of any lawsuits
that would have a material adverse impact on the consolidated financial position of the Company.
 
On
October 16, 2018, the Company was served with a complaint filed on October 11, 2018 in the Supreme Court of the State of New York,
Queens County, by Susan Paskowitz, a stockholder of the Company, against the Company; Joseph F. Hughes and Winifred M. Hughes;
current and former directors Christopher Hughes, Raymond A. Roel, Brian J. Mangan, Regina Dowd, James J. Hill, William Kelly,
and Eric Stein; as well as stockholders Zeff Capital, L.P., QAR Industries, Inc. and Fintech Consulting LLC (the “Stockholder
Litigation”). The complaint purports to be a class action lawsuit asserting claims on behalf of all minority stockholders
of the Company. Ms. Paskowitz alleges the following: the sale by Joseph F. Hughes and Winifred M. Hughes of an aggregate of 819,491
shares of the Company’s common stock (“controlling interest”) to Zeff Capital, L.P., QAR Industries, Inc. and
Fintech Consulting LLC was in breach of Joseph F. Hughes’ and Winifred M. Hughes’ fiduciary duties and to the detriment
of the Company’s minority stockholders; the members of the Board of Directors of the Company named in the complaint breached
their fiduciary duties by failing to immediately adopt a rights plan that would have prevented Joseph F. Hughes and Winifred M.
Hughes from selling their shares and preserved a higher premium for all stockholders; Zeff, QAR, and Fintech are “partners”
and constitute a “group.” Ms. Paskowitz also asserts that Zeff Capital, L.P., QAR Industries, Inc. and Fintech Consulting
LLC aided and abetted Joseph F. Hughes’ and Winifred M. Hughes’ conduct, and ultimately sought to buy out the remaining
shares of the Company at an unfair price. The complaint requests declarations from the court that: (1) Joseph F. Hughes’
and Winifred M. Hughes’ sale of their controlling interest to Zeff Capital, L.P., QAR Industries, Inc. and Fintech Consulting
LLC was in breach of their fiduciary duties, and that those shares may not be voted or sold back to the Company pending further
court order, (2) the members of the Board of Directors named in the complaint breached their fiduciary duties by failing to timely
adopt a stockholder rights plan, which resulted in the loss of the ability to auction the Company off to the highest bidder without
interference from Zeff Capital, L.P., QAR Industries, Inc. and Fintech Consulting LLC, and (3) Zeff Capital, L.P., QAR Industries,
Inc. and Fintech Consulting LLC must make a number of disclosures regarding their plans for the Company, their relationships with
one another, and any agreements with Joseph F. Hughes and Winifred M. Hughes. The complaint has not assigned any monetary values
to alleged damages, but it seeks: (1) for Joseph F. Hughes and Winifred M. Hughes, and Zeff Capital, L.P., QAR Industries, Inc.
and Fintech Consulting LLC, to disgorge any benefit they received from the sale of the Hughes’ controlling interest, (2)
for the Board of Directors to pay damages equal to the reduced value of the class members’ shares as auctionable assets,
and (3) reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs. Although the Company is named as a defendant, there are no claims or damage
allegations against the Company, and the complaint states that it names the Company solely to effectuate equitable relief if granted.
 
On
May 6, 2019, a stipulation of dismissal was filed in the Stockholder Litigation with respect to defendants Joseph F. Hughes, Winifred
M. Hughes, and Regina Dowd, in which the plaintiff and these defendants agreed to the dismissal of all claims asserted by and
against them, without prejudice. On July 26, 2019, the Company filed cross-claims against Zeff Capital, L.P., QAR Industries,
Inc. and Fintech Consulting LLC relating to alleged breaches of fiduciary duties and for indemnification and contribution filed.
 

Page 11
 

 
TSR,
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES
TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
November
30, 2019
(Unaudited)
 
On
June 14, 2019, Ms. Paskowitz filed an amended complaint in the Stockholder Litigation in the Supreme Court of the State of New
York, Queens County against the members of the Board of Directors and Zeff Capital, L.P., QAR Industries, Inc. and Fintech Consulting
LLC, which asserts substantially similar allegations to those contained in the October 11, 2018 complaint. In addition to the
members of the Board of Directors named in the original complaint, the amended complaint names current and former directors Ira
Cohen, Joseph Pennacchio, and William Kelly as defendants. The amended complaint also asserts a derivative claim purportedly on
behalf of the Company against the named members of the Board of Directors. The amended complaint seeks declaratory judgment and
unspecified monetary damages. The complaint requests: (1) a declaration from the court that the members of the Board of Directors
named in the complaint breached their fiduciary duties by failing to timely adopt a stockholder rights plan, which resulted in
the loss of the ability to auction the Company off to the highest bidder without interference from Zeff Capital, L.P., QAR Industries,
Inc. and Fintech Consulting LLC; (2) damages derivatively on behalf of the Company for unspecified harm caused by the Directors’
alleged breaches of fiduciary duties; (3) damages and equitable relief derivatively on behalf of the Company for the Directors’
alleged failure to adopt proper corporate governance practices; and (4) damages and injunctive relief against Zeff Capital, L.P.,
QAR Industries, Inc. and Fintech Consulting LLC based on their knowing dissemination of false or misleading public statements
concerning their status as a group. The complaint has not assigned any monetary values to alleged damages.
 
On
July 15, 2019, the Company filed an answer to the amended complaint in the Stockholder Litigation and cross-claims against Zeff
Capital, L.P., QAR Industries, Inc. and Fintech Consulting LLC for breaches of their fiduciary duties, aiding and abetting breaches
of fiduciary duties, and indemnification and contribution based on their misappropriation of material nonpublic information and
their failure to disclose complete and accurate information in SEC filings concerning their group actions to attempt a creeping
takeover of the Company.
 
In
addition, on December 21, 2018, the Company filed a complaint in the United States District Court, Southern District of New York,
against Zeff Capital, L.P., Zeff Holding Company, LLC, Daniel Zeff, QAR Industries, Inc., Robert Fitzgerald, Fintech Consulting
LLC, and Tajuddin Haslani for violations of the disclosure and anti-fraud requirements of the federal securities laws under Sections
13(d) and 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and the related rules and regulations promulgated
by the SEC, for failing to disclose to the Company and its stockholders their formation of a group and the group’s intention
to seize control of the Company. The complaint requests that the court, among other things, declare that the defendants have solicited
proxies without filing timely, accurate and complete reports on Schedule 13D and Schedule 14A in violation of Sections 13(d) and
14(a) of the Exchange Act, direct the defendants to file with the SEC complete and accurate disclosures, enjoin the defendants
from voting any of their shares prior to such time as complete and accurate disclosures have been filed, and enjoin the defendants
from further violations of the Exchange Act with respect to the securities of the Company. The Company has filed motions for preliminary
injunction and expedited discovery. The court held an initial pretrial conference on April 23, 2019 during which it ordered the
parties to participate in a mediation of the claims raised in the action. The parties subsequently participated in mediation sessions
through the Court-annexed Mediation Program; however, no resolution was reached as a result of the mediation.
 
On
January 7, 2019, Ms. Paskowitz filed a related action against Zeff Capital, L.P., Zeff Holding Company, LLC, Daniel Zeff, QAR
Industries, Inc., Robert Fitzgerald, Fintech Consulting LLC, and Tajuddin Haslani in the Southern District of New York, which
asserts claims against them for breach of fiduciary duty and under federal securities laws similar to those asserted in the Company’s
action. Although the Company is not a party to Ms. Paskowitz’s action, the court has determined to treat the Company’s
and Ms. Paskowitz’s respective actions as related.
 
On
August 7, 2019, following the Company’s initial rescheduling of the 2018 Annual Meeting
for September 13, 2019 and the filing of Preliminary Proxy Statements by the Company and Zeff Capital, L.P., Zeff
Capital, L.P. filed a complaint in the Delaware Court of Chancery against the Company seeking an order requiring the Company to
hold its next annual meeting of stockholders on or around September 13, 2019, and obligating the Company to elect Class I and
Class III directors at that annual meeting. 
 

Page 12
 

 
TSR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
November 30, 2019
(Unaudited)
 
On August
30, 2019, the Company entered into the Settlement Agreement with the Investor Parties with respect to the proxy contest pertaining
to the election of directors at the 2018 Annual Meeting, which was held on October 22, 2019. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement,
the parties have agreed to forever settle and resolve any and all disputes between the parties, including without limitation disputes
arising out of or relating to the following litigations:
 
(i) The
complaint relating to alleged breaches of fiduciary duties filed on November 1, 2018 by Fintech Consulting LLC against the Company
in the Delaware Court of Chancery, which was previously dismissed voluntarily;
 
(ii) The
complaint for declaratory and injunctive relief for violations of the federal securities laws filed on December 21, 2018 by the
Company against the Investor Parties in the United States District Court in the Southern District of New York;
 
(iii) Cross-claims
relating to alleged breaches of fiduciary duties and for indemnification and contribution filed on July 26, 2019 by the Company
against the Investor Parties in New York Supreme Court, Queens County; and
 
(iv) The
complaint to compel annual meeting of stockholders filed on August 7, 2019 by Zeff Capital, L.P. against the Company in the Delaware
Court of Chancery.
 
No party admitted
any liability by entering into the Settlement Agreement. The Settlement Agreement did not resolve the Stockholder Litigation filed
by Susan Paskowitz against the Company, Joseph F. Hughes, Winifred M. Hughes and certain current and former directors of the Company
in the Supreme Court of the State of New York on October 11, 2018.
 
Concurrently
with the Settlement Agreement, the parties entered into a share repurchase agreement (the “Repurchase Agreement”) which
provided for the purchase by the Company and Christopher Hughes, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, of
the shares of the Company’s Common Stock held by the Investor Parties (the “Repurchase”). The Settlement Agreement
also contemplated that, if the Repurchase was completed, the Company would make a settlement payment to the Investor Parties at
the closing of the Repurchase (the “Settlement Payment”). However, the Repurchase and Settlement Payment were not completed
by the deadline of December 30, 2019.
 
Pursuant to
the Settlement Agreement, (1) the Company agreed to adopt an amendment to the Company’s Amended and Restated By-Laws, dated
April 9, 2015 (the “By-Laws Amendment”), providing that stockholders of the Company owning at least forty percent (40%)
of the issued and outstanding Common Stock may request a special meeting of stockholders; (2) the Investor Parties agreed not to
take any action to call or otherwise cause a special meeting of stockholders to occur prior to December 30, 2019 (unless the Company
had failed to hold the 2018 Annual Meeting); (3) the Company agreed to amend and restate the Company’s Rights Agreement,
dated August 29, 2018 (the “Amended Rights Agreement”), to confirm that a Distribution Date (as defined in the Amended
Rights Agreement) shall not occur as a result of any request by any of the Investor Parties for a special meeting; (4) the Company
agreed that prior to the earlier of (A) the completion of the Repurchase and the payment of the Settlement Payment and (B) January
1, 2020, the Board of Directors shall not consist of more than seven (7) directors.
 
Pursuant to
the terms of the Settlement Agreement, the two nominees for director made by Zeff Capital, L.P. were elected as directors at the
Company’s 2018 Annual Meeting held on October 22, 2019. Please see the Company’s current Report on Form 8-K filed with
the SEC on October 21, 2019 for more information about the background of the election of directors at the Company’s 2018
Annual Meeting.
 
Pursuant to
the terms of the Settlement Agreement, inasmuch as the Repurchase was not completed and the Settlement Payment was not made by
December 30, 2019, the members of the Board of Directors (other than the two directors who were nominated by Zeff Capital, L.P.
and elected as directors at the 2018 Annual Meeting) resigned from the Board effective 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on December 30, 2019.
Immediately thereafter, the two remaining directors appointed Robert Fitzgerald to the Board of Directors. Please see the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 31, 2019 for more information about the background and the appointment
of Robert Fitzgerald.
 


Page 13
 

 
TSR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
November 30, 2019
(Unaudited)
 
In addition,
the Settlement Agreement provides for mutual releases between the Company and each of the Investor Parties and certain of their
affiliates. Each of the Investor Parties and certain of their affiliates also agreed to certain customary standstill provisions,
including without limitation, with regard to certain actions in connection with the 2018 Annual Meeting, Extraordinary Transactions
(as defined in the Settlement Agreement) with the Company, and the acquisition of any securities (or beneficial ownership thereof)
of the Company, each of which expired on December 30, 2019.
 
The foregoing
is not a complete description of the terms of the Settlement Agreement and the Share Repurchase Agreement. For a further description
of the terms of the Settlement Agreement and the Share Repurchase Agreement, including copies of the Settlement Agreement and Share
Repurchase Agreement, please see the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company with the SEC on September
3, 2019.
 
On October
21, 2019, the Company entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (the “MOU”) with Susan Paskowitz providing for the
settlement of the Stockholder Litigation filed by Ms. Paskowitz on October 11, 2018. The MOU provides for the settlement of the
claims by Ms. Paskowitz that (1) the members of the Board named in the original complaint allegedly breached their fiduciary duties
by failing to immediately adopt a rights plan that would have prevented the sale by Joseph F. Hughes and Winifred M. Hughes of
an aggregate of 819,491 shares of the Company’s common stock to the Investor Parties; (2) the members of the Board named
in the amended complaint allegedly breached their fiduciary duties and failed to adopt proper corporate governance practices; and
(3) the Investor Parties acted as “partners” and constituted a “group” in their purchase of shares from
Joseph F. Hughes and Winifred M. Hughes and knowingly disseminated false or misleading public statements concerning their status
as a group.
 
Pursuant to
the terms of the MOU, the Company will (1) implement certain corporate governance reforms described in the MOU within 30 days of
a final order and judgment entered by the court, and keep these corporate governance reforms in place for 5 years from the time
of the final order and judgment; and (2) acknowledge that the plaintiff, Ms. Paskowitz, and her counsel provided a substantial
benefit to the Company and its stockholders through the prosecution of the Stockholder Litigation and other related actions filed
by Ms. Paskowitz described above.
 
On December
16, 2019, the Company entered into a Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement (the “Stipulation”) with Susan Paskowitz
in the Stockholder Litigation. The Stipulation retains the terms and conditions of settlement of the Stockholder Litigation contained
in the MOU described in the preceding paragraph, with the addition that the Company will pay to plaintiff’s counsel an award
of attorneys’ fees and reimbursement of expenses in the amount of $260,000 (collectively, the “Stockholder Litigation
Settlement”). The Stockholder Litigation Settlement is intended to fully, finally, and forever compromise, settle, release,
resolve, and dismiss with prejudice the Stockholder Litigation and all claims asserted therein directly against all present and
former defendants and derivatively against them on behalf of the Company. The Stockholder Litigation Settlement does not contain
any admission of liability, wrongdoing or responsibility by any of the parties, and provides for mutual releases by all parties.
Each stockholder of the Company is a member of the plaintiff class unless such stockholder opts out of the class. The Company expects
that the full amount of the $260,000 settlement payment will be covered by insurance proceeds. The Stipulation remains subject
to approval by the court. The Stipulation is independent of the Settlement Agreement and Share Repurchase Agreement that the Company
had entered into with the Investor Parties.
 
Although the Company believes
that the Stipulation represents a fair and reasonable compromise of the matters in dispute in the Stockholder Litigation, there
can be no assurance that the court will approve the Stipulation as proposed, or at all. Under the terms of the Stipulation, plaintiff
Ms. Paskowitz has filed the Stipulation with the court and has requested a date for a final hearing on the approval of the Settlement
and plaintiff’s application for an award of counsel fees and the reimbursement of expenses. The Stipulation is filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company with the SEC on December 17, 2019.
  


Page 14
 

 
TSR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
November 30, 2019
(Unaudited)
 

9.Recently Adopted
                                         Accounting Pronouncements

 
Effective June 1, 2019, the
Company adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02, Leases, which sets out the principle for the
recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e., lessees and lessors). The
new standard requires lessees to classify leases as either finance or operating leases and record a right-of-use asset and a lease
liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. An accounting policy election
may be made to account for leases with a term of 12 months or less similar to existing guidance for operating leases today. ASU
No. 2016-02 supersedes the existing guidance on accounting for leases. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-11, Leases
(Topic 842): Targeted Improvements, which allows for an optional transition method for the adoption of Topic 842. The two permitted
transition methods are now the modified retrospective approach, which applies the new lease requirements at the beginning of the
earliest period presented, and the optional transition method, which applies the new lease requirements through a cumulative-effect
adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption. ASU 2016-02 is effective for our fiscal year
ending May 31, 2020 and the interim periods within that year. The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal
2020 using the optional transition method. The Company also intends to elect the practical expedients that allow us to carry forward
the historical lease classification. The Company has established an inventory of existing leases and implemented a new process
of evaluating the classification of each lease. The financial impact of the adoption of the new standard at June 1, 2019 increased
total assets and total liabilities by approximately $690,000. The financial impact of the adoption primarily relates to the capitalization
of right-of-use assets and recognition of lease liabilities related to operating leases. The Company will implement changes to
its processes and internal controls, as necessary, to meet the reporting and disclosure requirements of the new standard.
 

10.Leases

 
The Company leases the space for its three offices.
Under ASC 842, at contract inception we determine whether the contract is or contains a lease and whether the lease should be classified
as an operating or finance lease. Operating leases are in right-of-use assets and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated
balance sheets.
 
The Company’s leases for
its three offices are classified as operating leases.
 
The lease agreements expire
on February 28, 2020, December 31, 2020 and August 31, 2022, respectively, and do not include any renewal options.
 
In addition to the monthly base
amounts in the lease agreements, the Company is required to pay real estate taxes and operating expenses during the lease terms.
 
For the three months and six
months ended November 30, 2019, the Company’s operating lease expense for these leases was $98,000 and $197,000, respectively.
 
Future minimum lease payments
under non-cancellable operating leases as of November 30, 2019 were as follows:
 

 


Page 15
 

 
TSR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
November 30, 2019
(Unaudited)
 
The following table sets forth
the right-of-use assets and operating lease liabilities as of November 30, 2019:
 


Assets 
  

Right-of-use assets	 
$519,381 

Liabilities 
   

Current operating lease liabilities	 
$251,576 

Long-term operating lease liabilities	 
 270,602 

Total operating lease liabilities	 
$522,178 

 
The weighted average remaining
lease term for the Company’s operating leases is 2.1 years.
 

11.Line of Credit

 
On November 27, 2019, TSR, Inc.
(“TSR”) closed on a revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) pursuant to a Loan and Security Agreement
with Access Capital, Inc. (the “Lender”) that may provide up to $7,000,000 in funding to TSR and its direct and indirect
subsidiaries, TSR Consulting Services, Inc., Logixtech Solutions, LLC and Eurologix, S.A.R.L., each of which together with TSR
is a borrower under the Credit Facility. Each of the borrowers has provided a security interest to the Lender in all of their respective
assets to secure amounts borrowed under the Credit Facility.
 

TSR expects to utilize the Credit
Facility for working capital and general corporate purposes. TSR also expected to utilize the Credit Facility to complete the Repurchase
and make the Settlement Payment; however, TSR did not complete the Repurchase and make the Settlement Payment prior to the December
30, 2019 deadline.

 
Inasmuch as TSR did not complete
the Repurchase and make the Settlement Payment prior to the December 30, 2019 deadline, the maximum amount that may be advanced
under the Credit Facility at any time shall not exceed $2,000,000.
 
Advances under the Credit Facility
accrue interest at a rate per annum equal to (x) the “base rate” or “prime rate” announced by Citibank,
N.A. from time to time, which shall be increased or decreased, as the case may be, in an amount equal to each increase or decrease
in such “base rate” or “prime rate,” plus (y) 1.75%. The initial term of the Credit Facility is 5 years,
which shall automatically renew for successive 5-year periods unless either TSR or the Lender gives written notice to the other
of termination at least 60 days prior to the expiration date of the then-current term.
 
TSR is obliged to satisfy certain
financial covenants and minimum borrowing requirements under the Credit Facility, and to pay certain fees, including prepayment
fees, and provide certain financial information to the Lender.
 
As of November 30, 2019, there
were no borrowings outstanding against this line of credit facility. Subsequent to November 30, 2019, the Company has, from time
to time, utilized the maximum amount of $2,000,000 available under the facility to fund its payroll and other obligations.
 


Page 16
 

 
TSR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
November 30, 2019
(Unaudited)
 

12.Subsequent Event

 
Inasmuch
as the Company did not complete the Repurchase and make the Settlement Payment prior to the December 30, 2019 deadline, the
members of the Board of Directors (other than the two directors who were elected as directors at the 2018 Annual Meeting)
resigned from the Board effective at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on December 30, 2019. Immediately thereafter, the two remaining
directors, Bradley M. Tirpak and H. Timothy Eriksen, appointed Robert Fitzgerald as a new director. Each of Mr. Tirpak, Mr.
Eriksen and Mr. Fitzgerald qualifies as an “independent director” under the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. These
three individuals were also appointed to the Audit Committee, Nominating Committee, Compensation Committee and Special
Committee. The Board appointed Mr. Tirpak as Chairman of the Board to succeed Christopher Hughes. Mr. Hughes will continue to
serve as the Chief Executive Officer, President and Treasurer of the Company. Additionally, the Board appointed Mr. Eriksen as
Lead Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Nominating Committee. The Board also appointed
Mr. Fitzgerald as the Chairman of the Compensation Committee and Chairman of the Special Committee.
 


Page 17
 

 
TSR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations
 
The following discussion and analysis should
be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to such financial statements.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain statements contained in Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, including statements concerning the Company’s plans,
future prospects and the Company’s future cash flow requirements are forward-looking statements, as defined in the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projections in the forward-looking statements
due to known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the following: the statements concerning the success
of the Company’s plan for growth, both internal and through the previously announced pursuit of suitable acquisition candidates;
the impact of adverse economic conditions on client spending which has a negative impact on the Company’s business; risks
relating to the competitive nature of the markets for contract computer programming services; the extent to which market conditions
for the Company’s contract computer programming services will continue to adversely affect the Company’s business;
the concentration of the Company’s business with certain customers; uncertainty as to the Company’s ability to maintain
its relations with existing customers and expand its business; the impact of changes in the industry, such as the use of vendor
management companies in connection with the consultant procurement process; the increase in customers moving IT operations offshore;
the Company’s ability to adapt to changing market conditions; the risks, uncertainties and expense of the legal proceedings
to which the Company is a party; and other risks and uncertainties set forth in the Company’s filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission. The Company is under no obligation to publicly update or revise forward-looking statements.
 
Results of Operations
 
The following table sets forth, for the
periods indicated, certain financial information derived from the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of operations.
There can be no assurance that trends in operating results will continue in the future:
 
Three months ended November 30, 2019 compared with three
months ended November 30, 2018
 

 


Page 18
 

 
TSR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
Revenue
 
Revenue consists primarily of revenue from
computer programming consulting services. Overall, revenue for the quarter ended November 30, 2019 decreased $1,168,000 or 7.1%
from the prior year quarter. Revenue for IT consultants for the current quarter decreased by 7.2%, primarily due to lower average
billing rates from a shift in business mix with less placements for high end skills. Revenue for administrative (non-IT workers)
decreased by 6.7%, primarily due to reduced opportunities for placements with a large customer due to the customer’s plan
to reduce its expenses. The overall average number of consultants on billing with customers decreased from 407 for the quarter
ended November 30, 2018 to 378 for the quarter ended November 30, 2019, while the average number of computer programming consultants
decreased from 346 in the quarter ended November 30, 2018 to 317 in the quarter ended November 30, 2019. The 378 consultants on
billing for the current quarter include an equivalent 61 administrative (non-IT) workers that the Company placed at the customers’
requests as compared to 61 in the prior year quarter.
 
Cost of Sales
 
Cost of sales for the quarter ended November
30, 2019 decreased $860,000 or 6.3% to $12,784,000 from $13,644,000 in the prior year period. The decrease in cost of sales resulted
primarily from a decrease in the average rates paid to consultants on billing and from a decrease in consultants placed with customers.
Cost of sales as a percentage of revenue increased from 83.2% in the quarter ended November 30, 2018 to 83.9% in the quarter ended
November 30, 2019. The percentage decrease in cost of sales for the current quarter as compared to the prior year quarter (6.3%
decrease) was lower than the percentage decrease in revenue for the current quarter as compared to the prior year quarter (7.1%
decrease), causing a reduction in gross margins. Customer demands for discounts and aggressive pricing combined with a competitive
market environment have continued to apply downward pressures on gross margins, causing an increase in cost of sales as a percentage
of revenue.
 
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses
consist primarily of expenses relating to account executives, technical recruiters, facilities costs, management and corporate
overhead. These expenses decreased approximately $496,000 or 17.2% from approximately $2,882,000 in the quarter ended November
30, 2018 to $2,386,000 in the quarter ended November 30, 2019. The decrease in these expenses primarily resulted from a significant
decrease in amounts paid for legal and advisory services of $393,000. The legal and advisory expenses decreased in connection with
the settlement, at the end of August 2019, of various lawsuits and the proxy contest relating to our annual meeting that was held
on October 22, 2019 after initially being rescheduled for September 13, 2019. In addition, there was an insurance recovery of approximately
$249,000 received during the quarter to reimburse certain of the legal expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses,
as a percentage of revenue, decreased from 17.5% in the quarter ended November 30, 2018 to 15.7% in the quarter ended November
30, 2019.
 
Other Income (Loss)
 
Other income for the quarter ended November
30, 2019 resulted primarily from interest and dividend income of $3,000 and a mark-to-market gain of $9,000 on the Company’s
equity securities. Other income for the quarter ended November 30, 2018 resulted primarily from interest and dividend income of
$5,000 and a mark-to-market gain of $1,000 on the Company’s equity securities.
 
Income Tax Provision (Benefit)
  
The income tax provision (benefit) included
in the Company’s results of operations for the quarters ended November 30, 2019 and 2018 reflects the Company’s estimated
effective tax rate for the years ending May 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. These rates resulted in a provision of 10.5% for the
quarter ended November 30, 2019 and a benefit of 26.3% for the quarter ended November 30, 2018.
 
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to TSR, Inc.
  
Net income attributable to TSR, Inc. was
$62,000 in the quarter ended November 30, 2019 compared to a loss of $97,000 in the quarter ended November 30, 2018. This increase
was primarily attributable to a decrease in legal and advisory expenses.
 


Page 19
 

 
TSR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
Six months ended November 30, 2019 compared with six months
ended November 30, 2018
  

 
Revenue
 
Revenue consists primarily of revenue from
computer programming consulting services. Overall, revenue for the six months ended November 30, 2019 decreased $2,803,000 or 8.5%
from the prior year period. Revenue for IT consultants for the current period decreased by 6.7%, primarily due to lower average
billing rates from a shift in business mix with less placements for high end skills. Revenue for administrative (non-IT workers)
decreased by 20.2%, primarily due to reduced opportunities for placements with a large customer due to the customer’s plan
to reduce its expenses. The overall average number of consultants on billing with customers decreased from 398 for the six months
ended November 30, 2018 to 377 for the six months ended November 30, 2019, while the average number of computer programming consultants
decreased from 337 in the period ended November 30, 2018 to 323 in the period ended November 30, 2019. The 377 consultants on billing
for the current period include an equivalent 54 administrative (non-IT) workers that the Company placed at the customers’
requests as compared to 61 in the prior year period.
 
Cost of Sales
 
Cost of sales for the six months ended
November 30, 2019 decreased $2,173,000 or 7.9% to $25,455,000 from $27,628,000 in the prior year period. The decrease in cost of
sales resulted primarily from a decrease in the average rates paid to consultants on billing and from a decrease in consultants
placed with customers. Cost of sales as a percentage of revenue increased from 83.8% in the six months ended November 30, 2018
to 84.3% in the six months ended November 30, 2019. The percentage decrease in cost of sales for the current period as compared
to the prior year period (7.9% decrease) was lower than the percentage decrease in revenue for the current period as compared to
the prior year period (8.5% decrease), causing a reduction in gross margins. Customer demands for discounts and aggressive pricing
combined with a competitive market environment have continued to apply downward pressures on gross margins, causing an increase
in cost of sales as a percentage of revenue.
 
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses
consist primarily of expenses relating to account executives, technical recruiters, facilities costs, management and corporate
overhead. These expenses increased approximately $172,000 or 3.2% from approximately $5,403,000 in the six months ended November
30, 2018 to $5,575,000 in the six months ended November 30, 2019. The increase in these expenses primarily resulted from a significant
increase in amounts paid for legal and advisory services of $373,000. The legal and advisory expenses increased in connection with
various stockholder lawsuits and the contested proxy solicitation relating to our annual meeting that was originally scheduled
to be held on November 28, 2018, but which was postponed in order to provide the Company with
 


Page 20
 

 
TSR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
additional time to review and respond to certain stockholder proposals, and due to the uncertainty caused by certain
stockholder litigations against the Company and current and former members of its Board of Directors that were commenced prior
to the original date for the annual meeting. The annual meeting was held on October 22, 2019 after initially being rescheduled
for September 13, 2019. Certain of these litigations have been settled and the legal expenses are expected to decrease going forward.
Selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenue, increased from 16.3% in the six months ended November
30, 2018 to 18.5% in the six months ended November 30, 2019.
 
Other Income
  
Other income for the six months ended November
30, 2019 resulted primarily from interest and dividend income of $8,000 and a mark to market gain of $11,000 on the Company’s
equity securities. Other income for the six months ended November 30, 2018 resulted primarily from interest and dividend income
of $10,000 and a mark to market loss of $5,000 on the Company’s equity securities.
 
Income Tax Benefit
 
The income tax benefit included in the Company’s results
of operations for the six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018 reflects the Company’s estimated effective tax rate for
the years ending May 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. These rates were a benefit of 28.8% for the six months ended November 30,
2019 and a benefit of 27.9% for the six months ended November 30, 2018.
 
Net Loss Attributable to TSR, Inc.
 
Net loss attributable to TSR, Inc. increased
from a net loss of $59,000 in the six months ended November 30, 2018 to a net loss of $602,000 in the six months ended November
30, 2019. This increase in net loss was primarily attributable to the increase in legal and advisory expenses and a decrease in
revenue.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
The Company expects that its cash and cash
equivalents, certificates of deposit and marketable securities, cash flow provided by operations and the Company’s line of
credit will be sufficient to provide the Company with adequate resources to meet its liquidity requirements for at least the next
12 months from the issuance of these financial statements. Utilizing its accounts receivable as collateral, the Company has secured
a line of credit to increase its liquidity (see Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements).
 
At November 30, 2019, the Company had working
capital (total current assets in excess of total current liabilities) of $5,125,000 including cash and cash equivalents and certificates
of deposit and marketable securities of $2,988,000 as compared to working capital of $6,225,000 including cash and cash equivalents
and certificates of deposit and marketable securities of $4,222,000 at May 31, 2019.
 
For the six months ended November 30, 2019,
net cash used in operating activities was $1,234,000 compared to net cash used in operating activities of $726,000 for the six
months ended November 30, 2018. The cash used in operating activities in the six months ended November 30, 2019 resulted primarily
from the consolidated net loss of $592,000, a decrease in accounts payable and other payables and accrued expenses of $633,000
and an increase in deferred income taxes of $252,000, which were offset, to an extent, by a decrease in accounts receivable of
$376,000. The cash used in operating activities in the six months ended November 30, 2018 resulted primarily from an increase in
accounts receivable of $743,000.
 
Net cash provided by investing activities
of $247,000 for the six months ended November 30, 2019 primarily resulted from not reinvesting a certificate of deposit that matured
during that period. There was no net cash provided by or used in investing activities for the six months ended November 30, 2018.
 
In the six months ended November 30, 2019,
net cash used in financing activities resulted from distributions to the noncontrolling interest of $11,000. In the six months
ended November 30, 2018, net cash used in financing activities resulted from distributions to the noncontrolling interest of $48,000.
 
The Company’s capital resource commitments
at November 30, 2019 consisted of lease obligations on its branch and corporate facilities. The Company intends to finance these
lease commitments from cash flows provided by operations, available cash and short-term marketable securities, supplemented by
the line of credit which the Company has obtained, as described above.
 


Page 21
 

 
TSR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
 
Effective June 1, 2019, the Company adopted
Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02, Leases, which sets out the principle for the recognition, measurement,
presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e., lessees and lessors). The new standard requires lessees
to classify leases as either finance or operating leases and record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with
a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. An accounting policy election may be made to account for leases
with a term of 12 months or less similar to existing guidance for operating leases today. ASU No. 2016-02 supersedes the existing
guidance on accounting for leases. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements,
which allows for an optional transition method for the adoption of Topic 842. The two permitted transition methods are now the
modified retrospective approach, which applies the new lease requirements at the beginning of the earliest period presented, and
the optional transition method, which applies the new lease requirements through a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening
balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption. ASU 2016-02 is effective for our fiscal year ending May 31, 2020 and the
interim periods within that year. The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 using the optional transition
method. The Company also intends to elect the practical expedients that allow us to carry forward the historical lease classification.
The Company has established an inventory of existing leases and implemented a new process of evaluating the classification of each
lease. The financial impact of the adoption of the new standard at June 1, 2019 increased total assets and total liabilities by
approximately $690,000. The financial impact of the adoption primarily relates to the capitalization of right-of-use assets and
recognition of lease liabilities related to operating leases. The Company will implement changes to its processes and internal
controls, as necessary, to meet the reporting and disclosure requirements of the new standard.
 
Critical Accounting Policies
  
The Securities and Exchange Commission
defines “critical accounting policies” as those that require the application of management’s most difficult subjective
or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain
and may change in subsequent periods.
 
The Company’s significant accounting
policies are described in Note 1 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements, contained in its May 31, 2019 Annual
Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company believes that those accounting policies
require the application of management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. Except for the adoption of ASU No.
2016-02, Leases, as of June 1, 2019, disclosed in Note 9 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, there have
been no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies as of November 30, 2019.
 

Item 3.Controls and Procedures
 
Disclosure Controls and Procedures.
The Company conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the principal executive officer and principal
accounting officer, of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under
the Exchange Act of 1934). Based on this evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal accounting officer concluded
that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
 
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
There was no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the Company’s most recently reported completed fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
 


Page 22
 

 
TSR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 

Part II.Other Information

 

Item 4.Exhibits
 

 


Page 23
 

 
TSR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.
 
TSR, Inc.
 

(Registrant)
 


Date:
January 13, 2020
 
/s/ Christopher Hughes

 
 
 
Christopher Hughes,
 Chief Executive Officer, President,

 
 
 
Treasurer and Principal Executive Officer

 
 
 
 

Date:
January 13, 2020
 
/s/ John G. Sharkey

 
 
 
John G. Sharkey,
Sr. Vice President and Principal Accounting Officer

 
 
 
Page 24

 
 
 
 


