
10-Q
1
tm205242d1_10q.htm
FORM 10-Q



 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
 
FORM 10-Q
 

 
 
x
QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the quarterly period ended December
31, 2019
or
¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the transition period from _____ to
______
 
Commission File Number: 001-37706
 

 
 
CCUR HOLDINGS,
INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter)
 

 
 


Delaware
 
04-2735766

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

 
6470 East Johns Crossing, Suite 490,
Duluth, Georgia 30097
(Address of principal executive offices)
(Zip Code)
 
Registrant’s telephone number,
including area code: (770) 305-6434
 

 
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
of the Act:
 


 
 
Name
    of each exchange on which

Title of each class
Trading Symbol(s)
registered

 None
 
 

 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes þ
     No o
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant
to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes þ
     No o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions
of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging
growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 


Large accelerated filer  ¨
 
Accelerated filer  ¨

Non-accelerated
filer  þ
 
Smaller
reporting company  þ

 
 
Emerging growth company  ¨

 
If an emerging growth company, indicate
by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial
accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.    ¨
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
 
Yes
¨        No þ
 
Number of shares of the Company’s common stock, par value
$0.01 per share, outstanding as of February 5, 2020 was 8,923,657
 

 


 
 

 
CCUR Holdings, Inc. 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
For the Quarterly Period Ended December
31, 2019
 
Table of Contents
 

 


2
 

 

 
Part
I - Financial Information
 
 Item 1.     Financial Statements
 
CCUR
Holdings, Inc. 
Consolidated
Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except share and
per share data)
 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of the consolidated financial statements.
 



3
 

 
CCUR
Holdings, Inc.
Consolidated
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except share and
per share data)
 

 
The accompanying
notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
 


4
 



 
ccur
holdings, inc.
Consolidated
STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (Unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
  

 
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the consolidated financial statements
 


5
 

 
ccur
holdings, inc.
Consolidated
STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (Unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except share data)
 



 



  
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of the consolidated financial statements.
 


6
 

 
ccur
holdings, inc.
Consolidated
STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (Unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except share data)
 

 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of the consolidated financial statements

 


7
 



 
ccur
holdings, inc.
CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of the consolidated financial statements.
 


8
 

 

CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 


1.Overview of the Business and Basis of Presentation
 
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,”
the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries
on a consolidated basis, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
 

We are a holding company owning and seeking
to own subsidiaries engaged in a variety of business operations. As of December 31, 2019, we had two existing operating segments:
(i) merchant cash advance (“MCA”) operations, conducted primarily through our subsidiary LM Capital Solutions, LLC
(d/b/a “LuxeMark Capital”) (“LMCS”), and (ii) real estate operations, conducted through our subsidiary
Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur”) and its subsidiaries.
 

The Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS,
with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“Old LuxeMark”). Through LMCS, we manage a connected network
of MCA originators and syndicate participants who provide those originators with capital by purchasing participation interests
in or co-funding MCA transactions. In addition, we provide loans to MCA originators, the proceeds of which are used by the MCA
originators to fund MCAs themselves. LMCS’ daily operations are led by the three principals of Old LuxeMark. CCUR provides
accounting and legal support to LMCS.

 

Recur provides commercial loans to local,
regional, and national builders, developers, and commercial landowners and also acquires, owns, and manages a portfolio of real
property for development. Recur does not provide consumer mortgages.
 

In addition to our MCA and real estate operating
segments, we actively evaluate acquisitions of additional businesses or operating assets, either as part of an expansion of our
current operating segments or establishment of a new operating segment, in an effort to reinvest the proceeds of our calendar year
2017 business dispositions and maximize use of other assets such as our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards. We
may also seek additional capital and financing to support the purchase of additional businesses and/or to provide additional working
capital to further develop our operating segments. We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire, and grow
businesses and assets that will maximize value for all our stockholders.
 
The unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein
have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted
pursuant to applicable rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which
were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. The year-end consolidated balance sheet data as of June 30,
2019 was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and may not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
The results of operations for the three months and six months ended December 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results
to be expected for the entire year. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated
financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 filed
with the SEC on August 28, 2019.
 
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting
Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies. The
significant accounting policies used in preparing these consolidated financial statements are consistent with the accounting policies
described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, except for those as described below.
 
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
 
Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair
value of the net assets of businesses acquired. We review goodwill at least annually for impairment. In our evaluation of goodwill
impairment, we perform a qualitative assessment that requires management judgment and the use of estimates to determine if it is
more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. An entity has an unconditional option
to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit and proceed directly to performing the quantitative goodwill impairment
test. An entity may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. We perform our annual impairment tests
as of December 31 of each year, unless circumstances indicate the need to accelerate the timing of the tests. We completed our
annual impairment test of goodwill as of December 31, 2019 and concluded that there was no impairment.
 


 9 
 

 
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Intangible assets include trade name, non-competition agreements,
and syndicate participant/originator relationships, are subject to amortization over their respective useful lives, and are classified
in definite-lived intangibles, net in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. These intangibles are evaluated for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. If facts
and circumstances indicate that the carrying value might not be recoverable, projected undiscounted net cash flows associated with
the related assets or groups of assets over their estimated remaining useful lives is compared against their respective carrying
amounts. If an asset is found to be impaired, the impairment charge will be measured as the amount by which the carrying amount
of an asset exceeds its fair value.

 
Commercial and Mortgage Loans and Loan
Losses
 
We have potential exposure to transaction
losses as a result of uncollectability of commercial mortgage and other loans. We base our reserve estimates on prior charge-off
history and currently available information that is indicative of a transaction loss. We reflect additions to the reserve in current
operating results, while we make charges to the reserve when we incur losses. We reflect recoveries in the reserve for transaction
losses as collected.
 
We have the intent and ability to hold these
loans to maturity or payoff and as such, have classified these loans as held-for-investment. These loans are reported on the balance
sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs.
As of December 31, 2019, we have not recorded any charge-offs, and believe that an allowance for loan losses is not required.
 
Land Investment
 
Land investment assets are stated at acquired
cost. Pre-acquisition and development costs are capitalized. Gains and losses resulting from the disposition of real estate are
included in operations. As of December 31, 2019, all land held by the Company is considered to be held for use and development.
 
Basic and Diluted Earnings (Loss) per
Share
 
Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed
by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during each fiscal period. Diluted earnings
(loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during each
fiscal period including dilutive common share equivalents. Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the
number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are
included in the computation. Weighted-average common share equivalents of 7,598 and 10,937 for the three months ended December
31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the calculation, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. Weighted-average
common share equivalents of 8,644 and 13,420 for the six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from
the calculation, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
 
The following table presents a reconciliation
of the numerators and denominators of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share for the periods indicated:
 

 
Fair Value Measurements
 
Fair value is defined as the price that
would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the
measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded
or disclosed at fair value, we consider the most advantageous market in which it would transact and assumptions that market participants
would use when pricing the asset or liability.
 
Accounting Standards Codification (ASC)
Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures requires certain disclosures around fair value and establishes a fair
value hierarchy for valuation inputs. The hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three levels based on the extent to which inputs
used in measuring fair value are observable in the market. Each fair value measurement is reported in one of the three levels which
are determined by the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. These levels are:
 

·Level 1
Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;

·Level 2
Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable; and

·Level 3
Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use
of management estimates.

 


10
 

 
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Our investment portfolio consists of money
market funds, equity securities, and corporate debt. All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or
less when purchased are considered to be cash equivalents. All cash equivalents are carried at cost less any unamortized premium
or discount, which approximates fair value. All investments with original maturities of more than three months are classified as
available-for-sale, trading or held-to-maturity investments. Our marketable securities, other than warrants and equity securities,
are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported
in stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. Warrants to purchase stock are
held as trading securities and are reported at fair value with gains and losses reported within the accompanying consolidated statements
of operations. Interest on securities is recorded in interest income. Dividends paid by securities are recorded in other income.
Any realized gains or losses are reported in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Equity securities are reported
at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses resulting from adjustments to fair value reported within our consolidated statements
of operations.
 
We use Level 3 inputs to determine the fair
value of our preferred stock investments. The Company has elected the measurement alternative and will record the investments at
cost adjusted for observable price changes for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer. Observable price changes
and impairment indicators will be assessed each reporting period.

 
We also use Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of our
contingent consideration and common stock purchase warrants related to our acquisition of the assets of Old LuxeMark (the “LuxeMark
Acquisition”). The Company uses a Monte Carlo simulation technique to value the performance-based contingent consideration
and common stock purchase warrants. This technique is a probabilistic model which relies on repeated random sampling to obtain
numerical results. The concluded values represent the means of those results.
 
We provide fair value measurement disclosures
of our securities in accordance with one of the three levels of fair value measurement. Our financial assets and liabilities that
were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019 are as follows:
 

 


11
 

 
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

 
The
carrying amounts of certain financial instruments, including cash equivalents and MCAs, approximate their fair values due
to their short-term nature. The following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for the Company’s
assets and obligations measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs:
 

 


The
following table shows the valuation methodology and unobservable inputs for Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair
value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2019 ($ amounts in thousands):
 



 

12
 


 


CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The
following table shows the valuation methodology and unobservable inputs for Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair
value on a recurring basis as of June 30, 2019 ($ amounts in thousands):
 

2.Recent Accounting Guidance
 

 
Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting
Guidance
 
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02, Leases (“ASU
2016-02”), on the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. The new guidance is effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The new guidance changes the
current accounting guidance related to the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities. We early adopted the new guidance
effective June 30, 2019, as further disclosed in Note 13 to these financial statements.
 
In February 2018, the FASB issued
ASU No. 2018-02, Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Topic 220) (“ASU
2018-02”), which permits entities to reclassify the tax effects stranded in accumulated other comprehensive income as
a result of recent United States federal tax reforms to retained earnings. Entities can elect to apply the guidance retrospectively
or in the period of adoption. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods
therein, with early adoption permitted. We adopted the new guidance effective July 1, 2019 with no material impact on our consolidated
financial statements or disclosures.
 
Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted
 
In November 2019, the FASB
issued ASU 2019-10, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), and
Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates (“ASU 2019-10”). Among other things, ASU 2019-10 provides that ASU
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial
Instruments (“ASU 2016-13”) will be effective for Public Business Entities that are SEC filers, excluding
smaller reporting companies such as the Company, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods
within those fiscal years. For all other entities, including smaller reporting companies like the Company, ASU 2016-13 will
be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022, including interim periods within those fiscal years. For all
entities, early adoption will continue to be permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that ASU 2016-13 will have on
our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
 
In December 2019 the FASB issued ASU 2019-12, “Income
Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes” (“ASU 2019-12”). ASU 2019-12 simplifies the accounting
for income taxes by removing certain exceptions to the general principles in Topic 740 and clarifying and amending existing guidance.
This guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2020,
with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that ASU 2019-12 will have on our consolidated financial
statements and disclosures.
 


13
 

 
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

3.Investments
 
Fixed-Maturity and Equity Securities
Investments
 
The following tables
provide information relating to investments in fixed-maturity and equity securities:


 

 

 

 
During the three months ended December 31,
2019, we reported $627,000 of unrealized loss on equity securities, net, within our consolidated statement of operations. Additionally,
we reported $843,000 of realized gain on the sale of debt and equity securities within our consolidated statement of operations.
During the six months ended December 31, 2019, we reported $158,000 of unrealized loss on equity securities, net, within our consolidated
statement of operations, and $1,919,000 of realized gain on the sale of debt and equity securities within our consolidated statement
of operations.
 
Maturities of Fixed-Maturity Securities
Available-for-Sale
 
The amortized cost
and fair values of fixed-maturity securities available for sale as of December 31, 2019 are shown by contractual maturity in the
table below. Actual maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations
with or without call or prepayment penalties.
 


14
 

 
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

 

4.Mortgage
                                         and Commercial Loans Receivable
 
We had $7,127,000 of  loan assets
as of December 31, 2019, of which $1,627,000 are mortgage loans secured by real property in certain markets throughout the United
States, and the remaining balance was comprised of loans to MCA originators. A summary of mortgage loan activity for the six months ended December
31, 2019 is as follows:
 

 
On July 1, 2019, one of our customers defaulted
on a $1,400,000 commercial mortgage loan. This loan was repaid in full during the three months ended December 31, 2019.
 
A summary of loan activity to MCA originators
for the period is as follows (amounts in thousands):
 

 
 Loans reported under “Other Loans Receivable” have
two-year, interest only terms, bearing interest at 17.0% per annum and are to a single MCA originator.
 


15
 

 
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

5.Advances Receivable, net
 
Total advances receivable, net consisted
of the following:
 

 
As of December 31, 2019, 100% of MCAs
in which we hold a participation interest were originated through three MCA originators.
 
Changes in the allowance for MCA credit
losses are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 

 
During the three and six months ended
December 31, 2019, we provided $5,000,000 and $8,000,000 of cash advances to an aviation business to fund the deposit
required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to four months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a
guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business. These prepaid fees are netted
against the principal balance, earned over the four-month advance period, and are reported as part of MCA income within the
statement of operations. During the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 we collected $3,000,000 of these advances. Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is
necessary.
 

6.Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses
 
Accounts payable and
accrued expenses consist of the following:
 

 

7.Pensions
 
Defined Benefit Plans
 
The following table provides the components
of net periodic benefit cost of our German defined benefit pension plans recognized in earnings for the three months and six months
ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (amounts in thousands):
 


16
 

 
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

 

8.Term Loan
 
In fiscal year 2019, we entered into an 18-month, $1,600,000
term loan with a commercial bank to finance part of a land purchase for the purpose of entitling and reselling the land. The term
loan has an interest rate of 4.53% (2.75% plus the one-month London Interbank Offered Rate (the “LIBOR”)) at December
31, 2019, with interest-only payments due monthly. All principal and any unpaid interest are due in full upon maturity in November
2020. As of December 31, 2019, we have capitalized $44,000 of interest from this loan as part of the land cost.
 

9.Income Taxes
 
The Company and its subsidiaries file income
tax returns in the U. S. federal jurisdiction and in various states and foreign jurisdictions. With a few exceptions, we are no
longer subject to U. S. federal, state, and local, or non-U. S. income tax examinations by tax authorities for fiscal years before
1999.
 
The domestic and foreign components of income
(loss) from operations before the provision for income taxes are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 

 
 
The components of the (benefit) provision
for income taxes are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 

 
NOLs
 
As of June 30, 2019, we had U.S. federal NOL carryforwards of
approximately $58,429,000 for income tax purposes, of which none expire in our fiscal year 2020, and the remainder expire at various
dates through our fiscal year 2037; however, with the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJA”) on December
22, 2017, federal NOLs generated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 now have no expiration date. We recently completed
an evaluation of the potential effect of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”) on our ability to utilize
these NOLs. The study concluded that we have not had an ownership change for the period from July 22, 1993 to June 30, 2019; therefore,
the NOLs will not be subject to limitation under Section 382. If we experience an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of
the IRC, our ability to use these NOLs will be substantially limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that
asset.
 


17
 

 



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

As of June 30, 2019, we had state NOLs of
$42,563,000 and foreign NOLs of $8,296,000. The state NOLs expire according to the rules of each state and expiration will occur
between fiscal year 2020 and fiscal year 2037. The foreign NOLs expire according to the rules of each country. As of June 30, 2019,
the foreign NOLs can be carried forward indefinitely in each country, although some countries do restrict the amount of NOL that
can be used in a given tax year.

 
Deferred Tax Assets and Related Valuation
Allowances
 

In assessing the realizability of deferred
tax assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
In determining whether or not a valuation allowance for tax assets is needed, we evaluate all available evidence, both positive
and negative, including: trends in operating income or losses; currently available information about future years; future reversals
of existing taxable temporary differences; future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards;
taxable income in prior carryback years if carryback is permitted under the tax law; and tax planning strategies that would accelerate
taxable amounts to utilize expiring carryforwards, change the character of taxable and deductible amounts from ordinary income
or loss to capital gain or loss, or switch from tax-exempt to taxable investments. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets
is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible.
As of December 31, 2019, we maintained a full valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets in all jurisdictions, with the
exception of the $237,500 alternative minimum tax (“AMT”) credit carryforward that is now considered refundable in
post-fiscal year 2019 after the enactment of the TCJA. The Company has a total of $950,000 in federal AMT credit carryforward.
Of this amount, $475,000 was pending receipt as of December 31, 2019 and received in the third quarter of our fiscal year 2020.
The remaining $475,000 has an indefinite life and will be 50% refundable on the Company’s June 30, 2020 tax return, with
the remainder being refundable by fiscal year 2022.

 

We do not have sufficient evidence of future
income to conclude that it is more likely than not that the Company will realize its entire deferred tax inventory in any of its
jurisdictions (United States and Germany). Therefore, we have recognized a full valuation allowance on the Company’s deferred
tax inventory, other than the alternative minimum tax credit. We reevaluate our conclusions regarding the valuation allowance quarterly
and will make appropriate adjustments as necessary in the period in which significant changes occur.

 
Unrecognized Tax Benefits
 
We have evaluated our unrecognized tax benefits
and determined that there has not been a material change in the amount of such benefits for the three months or six months ended
December 31, 2019.
 

10.Stock-Based Compensation
 
We have a stock incentive plan providing
for the grant of incentive stock options to employees and non-qualified stock options to employees and directors. The Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors (“Compensation Committee”) administers the Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive
Plan (the”Stock Plan”). Under the Stock Plan, the Compensation Committee may award stock options and shares of common
stock on a restricted basis. The Stock Plan also specifically provides for stock appreciation rights and authorizes the Compensation
Committee to provide, either at the time of the grant of an award under the Stock Plan or otherwise, that such award may be cashed
out upon terms and conditions to be determined by the Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors.
 


18
 

 
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Option awards are granted with an exercise
price equal to the market price of our stock at the date of grant. We recognize stock compensation expense in accordance with ASC
718-10 over the requisite service period of the individual grantees, which generally equals the vesting period. All of our stock
compensation is accounted for as equity instruments.
 
The Stock Plan became effective November
1, 2011 and replaced the 2001 Stock Option Plan that expired on October 31, 2011. At December 31, 2019, there were 787,219 shares
available for future grants.
 
We recorded $96,000 and $15,000 to general
and administrative expense for stock-based compensation related to the issuance of stock options and restricted stock to employees
and board members during the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We recorded $195,000 and $75,000 to general
and administrative expense for stock-based compensation related to the issuance of stock options and restricted stock to employees
and board members during the six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
 
Restricted Stock Awards
 
As of December 31, 2019, we had 162,500
service-condition restricted stock awards outstanding at a weighted-average grant date fair value of $3.98.
 
Stock-based
compensation expense for the three months and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 resulted from vesting of shares over
their respective vesting periods. Total remaining compensation cost of restricted stock awards issued but not yet vested
as of December 31, 2019 is $275,000, which is expected to be recognized over the weighted average period of 2.02 years.
 
Restricted Stock Awards to be Granted
Under the Company’s 2019 Bonus Plan
 

Under the terms of the Company’s 2019
bonus plan, the Company will grant $350,000 of restricted stock to eligible participants, based upon the Company’s net asset
value as of December 31, 2019. The restricted stock award will be subject to the Stock Plan, which requires a service period following
the restricted stock award grant. The share-based compensation expense attributable to these awards will be recorded over the requisite
service period starting with the service inception date and ending on the final vest date.

 
Stock Options
 
We use a Black-Scholes option valuation
model to determine the grant date fair value of stock-based compensation for stock options. The Black-Scholes model incorporates
various assumptions including the expected term of awards, volatility of stock price, risk-free rates of return, and dividend yield.
The expected term of an award is no less than the option vesting period and is based on our expectations under our current operating
environment. Expected volatility is based upon the historical volatility of the Company’s stock price. The risk-free interest
rate is approximated using rates available on U.S. Treasury securities with a remaining term similar to the option’s expected
life. The dividend yield used in the Black-Scholes option valuation model is based upon expectations of cash dividends.
 
As of December 31, 2019, we had 15,000 stock
options outstanding, of which 5,000 options had vested and were exercisable, at a weighted-average exercise price of $5.42, with
a weighted-average remaining contractual term of 8.39 years.
 
The total intrinsic value of options both
outstanding and exercisable was nil for the three months and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Total remaining compensation
cost of stock options granted, but not yet vested, at December 31, 2019 is $8,000, which is expected to be recognized over the
weighted average remaining period of 1.38 years. We generally issue new shares to satisfy option exercises. During the three months
and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no grants, forfeitures, or exercises of stock options.
 


11.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

 
The following table summarizes the changes in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) by component, net of taxes, for the six months ended December 31, 2019:
 


19
 

 
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

 

12.Segments
 
We operate in two segments: (i) “MCA
Operations,” conducted primarily through LMCS, and (ii) “Real Estate Operations,” conducted primarily through
Recur.
 
Our President and Chief Executive Officer
is our chief operating decision maker (the “CODM”). Our CODM uses revenue and operating income to evaluate the profitability
of our operating segments; all other financial information is reviewed by the CODM on a consolidated basis. Segment operating contribution
reflects segment revenue less operating expenses that are directly attributable to the operating segment, not including corporate
and unallocated expenses. All of our principal operations and assets are located in the United States.
 
Segment operating results are as follows
(amounts in thousands):
 

 


20
 

 
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Segment assets are as follows:
 

 

13.Leases
 
The Company leases office space in two locations:
(i) Duluth, Georgia, and (ii) New York City, New York. The Duluth, Georgia lease expired on January 31, 2020 and the New York City,
New York lease expires in 2023. The Company signed a new lease for a corporate headquarters location in Duluth, Georgia, that commenced
in January 2020 and expires on May 31, 2023. Minimum payment commitments over the life of the new lease are $271,000. We prospectively
adopted ASU 2016-02 effective for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. For leases with a term of 12 months or less, we made an
accounting policy election not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities. The following information represents the amounts
included in the financial statements related to leases (amounts in thousands):
 

  
Operating lease cost is reported as part
of general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statement of operations. Sublease income is reported as a reduction
of general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statement of operations. Operating cash flows from leases are reported
as part of net income on the consolidated statement of cash flows. Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for new operating
lease liabilities are reported as part of other long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheet. The short-term portions of
the operating lease liabilities are reported as part of accounts payable and accrued expenses on the consolidated balance sheet.
The long-term portions of the operating lease liabilities are reported as part of other long-term liabilities on the consolidated
balance sheet.
 
At December 31, 2019, lease payments for
operating leases for the next five years are as follows:
 

 


21
 



  
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The total lease liability on the balance
sheet as of December 31, 2019 is $461,000. Total unrecognized expected interest expense related to the lease is $41,000.
 

14.Commitments and Contingencies and Related Party Transactions
 
Severance Arrangements
 
Pursuant to the terms of the employment
agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and other senior employees, employment may be terminated
either by the respective employee or by the Company at any time. In the event an agreement is terminated by us without cause, or
in certain circumstances terminates constructively or expires, the terminated employee will receive severance compensation for
a period from six to 12 months, depending on the employee, and bonus severance. Additionally, if terminated, our Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and certain other senior executives will continue to receive the employer portion of health coverage
during their severance period. At December 31, 2019, the maximum contingent liability under these agreements was $760,000 in the
aggregate.
 
In February 2019, the Company entered into a management agreement
(as amended, the “Management Agreement”) with CIDM LLC (“CIDM” or the “Asset Manager”) under
which CIDM provides consulting services and advice to the Board of Directors and the Company’s management regarding asset
allocation and acquisition strategy. CIDM exclusively manages the Company’s portfolio of publicly traded investments and,
subject to the terms of the Management Agreement and the guidelines set forth therein, maintains investment authority over such
portfolio, in order to better position the Company to increase its return on assets. CIDM is an affiliate of the Company’s
largest stockholder, JDS1, LLC. Under the terms of the Management Agreement, in addition to a quarterly cash payment to compensate
CIDM for expenses incurred in connection with providing these services, the Company pays for these services through the issuance
of cash-settled stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) based on increases in the asset value of the Company. Based on the
terms of the SARs and the Management Agreement, CIDM may not exercise the SARs unless there are certain qualifying changes of control
of the Company (which does not include any change of control related to the stock ownership of CIDM or its affiliates, including
JDS1, LLC). CIDM and its affiliates are subject to standard trading restrictions and standstill provisions during the effective
term of the Management Agreement. Based on the Company’s total assets as of December 31, 2019 and growth in net asset value
(as defined in the Management Agreement) over the course of calendar year 2019, we expect to issue an additional 460,814 SARs to
CIDM during the third quarter of our fiscal year 2020. The contingent liability associated with this cash-settled SAR commitment
is dependent on certain change-of-control events. Neither the amount nor the range of possible amounts associated with this contingent
liability is able to be estimated at the present time, as the future stock price of the Company cannot be predicted, but such liability
is not limited by the terms of the Management Agreement and if realized may be material to the financial condition and results
of operation of the Company.
 


22
 

 

Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
The following Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements
and the related notes thereto, which appear elsewhere herein. Except for the historical financial information, many of the matters
discussed in this Item 2 may be considered “forward-looking” statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs.
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute
to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section below entitled “Cautionary Statement
Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” in the section below entitled “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” and in other filings
made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
June 30, 2019.
 
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,”
the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries,
unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
 
Overview
 
As of December 31, 2019, the Company had
two existing operating segments: (i) merchant cash advance (“MCA”) operations, conducted primarily through our subsidiary
LM Capital Solutions, LLC (d/b/a “LuxeMark Capital”) (“LMCS”), and (ii) real estate operations, conducted
through our subsidiary Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur”) and its subsidiaries.
 
The Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS,
with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“Old LuxeMark”). Through LMCS, we manage a connected network
of MCA originators and syndicate participants who provide those originators with capital by purchasing participation interests
or co-funding MCA transactions. In addition, we provide loans to MCA originators, the proceeds of which are used by the MCA originators
to fund MCAs themselves. LMCS’ daily operations are led by the three principals of Old LuxeMark. CCUR provides accounting
and legal support to LMCS.
 
Recur provides commercial loans to local,
regional, and national builders, developers, and commercial landowners and also acquires, owns, and manages a portfolio of real
property for development. Recur does not provide consumer mortgages.
 
In addition to our real estate and MCA operating segments, we
actively evaluate acquisitions of additional businesses or operating assets, either as part of an expansion of our current operating
segments or establishment of a new operating segment, in an effort to reinvest the proceeds of our calendar year 2017 business
dispositions and maximize use of other assets such as our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards. We may also seek
additional capital and financing to support the purchase of additional businesses and/or to provide additional working capital
to further develop our operating segments. We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire, and grow businesses
and assets that will maximize value for all our stockholders. On December 10, 2019, the Board announced that it has initiated further
review of capital allocation alternatives to maximize stockholder value, including a potential limited return of capital to stockholders
through a special distribution. The timing of such distribution, if any, is uncertain and the Company does not currently intend
to provide announcements or updates except as required by applicable law.
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
 
The SEC defines “critical accounting
estimates” as those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often
as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent
periods. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are disclosed under the section “Application of Critical Accounting
Policies” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
 
Results of Operations
 
We recognize revenue in accordance
with the appropriate accounting guidance as described in our critical accounting policies. See the section titled
 “Application of Critical Accounting Policies” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30,
2019. MCA revenue includes income from the discount at which we provide advances on future merchant receivables, as well as
fees earned for sourcing both syndication capital and merchant leads for MCA originators. We generate revenue from interest
on loans by entering into commercial loan agreements to fund third party originators in the MCA industry and real estate
industry.
 


23
 

 
Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily
of commissions, travel, employee salaries, benefits, and consulting fees.
 
General and administrative expenses consist
primarily of salaries, benefits, overhead, management travel, administrative personnel, rent, information systems, insurance, accounting,
legal services, board of director fees and expenses, and other professional services.
 
Other interest income is earned on cash
overnight sweep accounts and money market deposits as well as investments in debt securities. Interest income also includes accretion
of discounts related to transactions in which we purchased debt securities at discounts. Such discounts are amortized over the
terms of each debt security to the commitment values that will be due on each maturity date, as well as early repayment. Additionally,
we earn payment-in-kind (“PIK”) interest from one of our debt securities whereby interest is paid in the form of an
increase in the commitment value due from the debt security issuer on the maturity date.
 
Three Months Ended December 31, 2019 in Comparison to the
Three Months Ended December 31, 2018
 
Consolidated Revenues and Income. During
the three months ended December 31, 2019, we generated $1.8 million of total revenue, compared to $0.4 million in the three months
ended December 31, 2018, driven largely by our increasing participation in the MCA industry. Our net income for the second quarter
of fiscal year 2020 increased to $3.0 million, compared to a loss of $1.5 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. This
increase was attributable largely to an increase in our income before income tax driven by our MCA operations and returns from
our investments in certain debt and equity securities.
 
MCA Operations Segment Revenues.
In December 2018, we began participating in the MCA industry by purchasing participation interests in advances to merchants through
third-party originators. For the three months ended December 31, 2019, we maintained a larger weighted average outstanding balance
of funded MCAs compared to the prior year, and consequently earned higher MCA revenue during the current period relative to the
three months ended December 31, 2018. After closing the acquisition of the assets of Old LuxeMark (the “LuxeMark Acquisition”)
in the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we began generating additional revenue in the MCA sector by earning fees on sourcing
syndication capital for MCA originators, earning interest on loans to MCA originators, and generating leads for MCA originators
in exchange for a fee. Additionally, as part of our MCA business, we originated term loans to an MCA originator so that it may
fund additional MCAs. These loans generated $0.2 million of interest income during the period. Our quarterly MCA operations revenues
are as follows:
 

 
MCA revenue from interest on loans to MCA
originators is categorized as MCA operations revenue for purposes of segment reporting but reported within the line item Interest
on mortgage and commercial loans within our consolidated statements of operations.
 
Real Estate Operations Segment Revenues.
We generated $0.1 million of revenue from interest on commercial mortgage loans during the three months ended December 31, 2019,
compared to $0.2 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018. The decrease in revenue resulted from the decrease in
interest on commercial mortgage loans due to borrower payoffs outpacing originations.

 


24
 


 
Sales
and Marketing Expenses. During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we began incurring sales and marketing expenses
attributable to new business development resources that are focused on augmenting our current businesses and identifying potential
new businesses. We incurred $0.1 million of these business development costs during the three months ended December 31, 2019, which
are reported as part of our corporate operating expenses. Additionally, the principals of Old LuxeMark, who now lead the LMCS daily
operations following closing of the LuxeMark Acquisition, are predominantly focused on generating incremental syndication income
and other MCA income for our MCA operations segment. As a result, our MCA operations segment incurred $0.2 million of sales and
marketing expenses during the three months ended December 31, 2019.
 
General
and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses were $1.0 million for the three months ended December
31, 2019, a $0.2 million, or 26%, increase from the three months ended December 31, 2018. Legal, accounting, compensation and other
administrative expenses attributable to our MCA operations accounted for $0.1 million of the increase, as we did not have MCA operations
in the prior year period. The remaining $0.1 million increase was due to corporate salaries from additional headcount and financial
performance bonuses accrued during the three months ended December 31, 2019.
 
Change
in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration.  During the three months ended December 31, 2019, we recorded a $0.4 million
reversal of previously recorded expense for change in the fair value of contingent consideration due to Old LuxeMark. The decrease
in estimated contingent consideration payments associated with the LuxeMark acquisition resulted from LMCS not meeting the minimum
performance levels to earn calendar year 2019 contingent consideration.
 
Amortization of Purchased Intangibles.
Our amortization of purchased intangibles includes amortization over the respective useful lives of the trade name, non-competition
agreements, and investor/originator relationships attributable to the LuxeMark Acquisition. Our intangible assets are evaluated
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable.
We acquired these intangibles as part of the LuxeMark Acquisition on February 13, 2019 and no impairments of these intangible assets
were identified as of December 31, 2019. Additionally, we completed our annual impairment test of goodwill as of December 31, 2019
and concluded that goodwill was not impaired.
 
Provision
for Credit Losses on Advances. During the three months ended December 31, 2019, we recorded a $0.2 million provision
for credit losses on MCAs, a $0.3 million, or 64%, decrease from the provision expense for the three months ended December 31,
2018. The period over period decrease in provision expense resulted from a lower amount of MCAs funded in the current period versus
the prior period, and lower expected default rates for the current period originators compared to the originators with whom we
funded MCAs in the prior year period.
 


25
 

 
Other Interest Income. Other interest
income includes interest earned on investments in debt securities and cash and money market balances. The components of our interest
income for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows:
 

  
Other interest income for the three months
ended December 31, 2019 increased by $1.3 million, or 141%, compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018, due to higher
yields on incremental investments in debt securities since December 31, 2019 and accretion of any discounts on these securities.
 
Realized
Gain on Investments, Net. During the three months ended December 31, 2019, we sold investments in certain equity securities
for which we recognized $0.8 million of net realized gains, as compared to $0 of realized gains on the sale of certain equity and
debt securities during the same period in the prior year.
 
Unrealized Loss on Equity Securities,
Net. During the three months ended December 31, 2019, we reported unrealized loss on equity securities, net, of $0.6 million,
compared to unrealized loss of $1.5 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018. Our unrealized losses on equity securities
each period are a function of changes in the fair value of the equity securities that we hold as of the current reporting period
balance sheet date relative to the preceding balance sheet date. Our unrealized losses during the current period were primarily
attributable to sale of equity securities during the period for which we had previously recognized unrealized gains, and upon
sale in the current period, resulted in a transfer of the gain from unrealized to realized, while the unrealized loss in the comparative
prior period is primarily attributable to declines in the market values of securities.
 
Income Tax (Benefit) Provision.
We reported $17 thousand of income tax benefit for the three months ended December 31, 2019, due to updated estimates of our estimated
state income taxes during the period. Our available federal NOLs offset any federal taxable income for our fiscal year 2019.
 
Six Months Ended December 31, 2019 in Comparison to the Six
Months Ended December 31, 2018
 
Consolidated Revenues and Income.
During the six months ended December 31, 2019, we generated $3.5 million of total revenue, compared to $0.5 million in the six
months ended December 31, 2018, driven largely by the growth in our participation in the MCA industry. Our net income for the
first six months of fiscal year 2020 increased to $6.6 million, compared to a loss of $1.5 million in the first six months of
fiscal year 2019. This increase was attributable largely to an increase in our income before income tax driven by our MCA operations
and our investments in certain debt and equity securities. 
 
MCA Operations Segment Revenues.
In December 2018, we began participating in the MCA industry by purchasing participation interests in funds advanced to merchants
through third-party originators. We generated $3.3 million of revenue from MCA operations during the six months ended December
31, 2019, compared to $0.3 million during the six months ended December 31, 2018. For the six months ended December 31, 2019,
we maintained a larger weighted average outstanding balance of funded MCAs compared to the prior year, and consequently earned
higher MCA revenue during the current period relative to the six months ended December 31, 2018. Additionally, as part of our
MCA business, we originated term loans to an MCA originator so that it may fund additional MCAs. These loans generated $0.4 million
of interest income during the period. Our MCA operations revenues for the six months are as follows:

 


26
 

 

  
MCA revenue from interest on loans to MCA
originators is categorized as MCA operations revenue for purposes of segment reporting but reported within the line item Interest
on mortgage and commercial loans within our consolidated statements of operations.
 
Real Estate Operations Segment Revenues.
We generated $0.2 million of revenue from real estate operations during both the six months ended December 31, 2019 and December
31, 2018.
 
Sales
and Marketing Expenses. During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we began incurring sales and marketing expenses
attributable to new business development resources that are focused on augmenting our current businesses and identifying potential
new businesses. We incurred $0.2 million of these business development costs during the six months ended December 31, 2019, which
are reported as part of our corporate operating expenses. Additionally, the principals of Old LuxeMark, who now lead the LMCS daily
operations following closing of the LuxeMark Acquisition, are predominantly focused on generating incremental syndication income
and other MCA income for our MCA operations segment. As a result, our MCA operations segment incurred $0.4 million of sales and
marketing expenses during the six months ended December 31, 2019.
 
General and Administrative Expenses.
General and administrative expenses were $2.0 million for the six months ended December 31, 2019, a $0.4 million, or 25%, increase
from the six months ended December 31, 2018. Legal, accounting, compensation and other administrative expenses attributable to
our MCA operations accounted for $0.3 million of the increase, as we did not have MCA operations in the prior year period. The
remaining $0.1 million increase was due to corporate salaries from additional headcount and financial performance bonuses accrued
during the six months ended December 31, 2019. 
 
Change
in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration.  During the six months ended December 31, 2019, we recorded a $0.4 million
reduction of previously recorded expense for change in the fair value of contingent consideration due to Old LuxeMark. The decrease
in estimated contingent consideration payments associated with the LuxeMark Acquisition resulted from LMCS not meeting the minimum
performance levels to earn calendar year 2019 contingent consideration.
 


27
 

 

Amortization of Purchased Intangibles.
Our amortization of purchased intangibles includes amortization over the respective useful lives of the trade name, non-competition
agreements, and investor/originator relationships attributable to the LuxeMark Acquisition. Our intangible assets are evaluated
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable.
We acquired these intangibles as part of the LuxeMark Acquisition on February 13, 2019 and no impairments of these intangible
assets were identified as of December 31, 2019. Additionally, we completed our annual impairment test of goodwill as of December
31, 2019 and concluded that goodwill was not impaired. 
 
Provision
for Credit Losses on Advances. During the six months ended December 31, 2019, we recorded a $0.4 million provision for
credit losses on MCAs, a $0.1 million, or 20%, decrease from the six months ended December 31, 2018. The period over period decrease
in provision expense resulted from a lower amount of MCAs funded in the current period versus the prior period, and lower expected
default rates for the current period originators compared to the originators with whom we funded MCAs in the prior year period.
 
Other Interest Income. Other interest
income includes interest earned on investments in debt securities and cash and money market balances. The components of our interest
income for the six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows:
 

 
Other interest income for the six months
ended December 31, 2019 increased by $2.5 million, or 147%, compared to the six months ended December 31, 2018, due to higher yields
on incremental investments in debt securities since December 31, 2019 and accretion of any discounts on these securities.
 
Realized Gain on Investments, Net.
During the six months ended December 31, 2019, we sold investments in certain equity securities for which we recognized $1.9 million
of net realized gains, as compared to $0.2 million of realized gains on the sale of certain equity and debt securities during
the same period in the prior year.
 
Unrealized Loss on Equity Securities,
Net. During the six months ended December 31, 2019, we reported unrealized losses on equity securities, net, of $0.2 million,
compared to an unrealized loss of $2.0 million during the six months ended December 31, 2018. Our unrealized gains and losses
on equity securities each period are a function of changes in the fair value of the equity securities that we hold as of the current
reporting period balance sheet date relative to the preceding balance sheet date. Our unrealized losses during the current period
were primarily attributable to sale of equity securities during the period for which we had previously recognized unrealized gains,
and upon sale in the current period, resulted in a transfer of the gain from unrealized to realized, while the unrealized loss
in the comparative prior period is primarily attributable to declines in the market values of securities.
 
Income
Tax Provision (Benefit). We reported $0.2 million of income tax expense for the six months ended December 31, 2019,
primarily due to taxes owed on income earned in states where we do not have NOLs available to offset such taxable income.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
Our future liquidity will be affected by,
among other things:
 

·our future access to capital;

·our exploration and evaluation of strategic alternatives and development of new operating assets;

·our ability to collect on our commercial loans and advances receivable;

·the liquidity and fair value of our debt and equity securities;

·our ongoing operating expenses; and

·potential liquidation of the Company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation.
  

28
 


 

Uses and Sources of Cash
 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
 
We generated $2.1 million and used $0.1
million of cash for operating activities during the six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Operating cash generated
during the six months ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to income from operations, adjusted for non-cash items,
partially offset by the timing of collection of interest income. Operating cash usage during the six months ended December 31,
2018 was primarily attributable to operating costs during the period exceeding cash generating income, as approximately $1.0 million
of our income for the period was from non-cash accretion and PIK interest.
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
 
During the six months ended December 31, 2019 we generated $1.9
million of cash, net, from investing activities. Our net cash inflows were primarily driven by liquidations of $2.4 million more
in debt and equity securities than investments during the six months ended December 31, 2019. Partially offsetting the net cash
inflows from debt and equity securities, we funded $0.2 million more in mortgage and commercial loans than we collected during
the period, due to new loans that we made to originators in the MCA industry. Remaining investing cash outflows during the six
months ended December 31, 2019 resulted from our purchase of land parcels for development and resale.
 
During the six months ended December 31, 2018 we used $11.3
million of cash, net, in investing activities. During the prior year period, we originated $4.5 million of short-term mortgage
loans and collected $2.0 million in repayments of loans through Recur. Additionally, we provided $7.9 million in MCA funding through
our MCA originators, and received $0.9 million in repayments through LMCS. Our remaining investing activities consisted of $8.0
million in purchases and $6.2 million in maturities or sales of debt and equity securities for the purpose of funding our operating
expenses as we continued to evolve our real estate and MCA operating businesses and actively search for additional operating businesses
to acquire.
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
 
On
March 5, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to one million shares of the Company’s
common stock. In January 2019, we completed the purchase of the authorized one million shares, and the Board of Directors authorized
the repurchase of an additional 500,000 shares of the Company’s common stock under a new repurchase program that replaces
and supersedes the prior repurchase program. Purchases are made through private transactions or open market purchases, which may
be made pursuant to trading plans subject to the restrictions and protections of Rule 10b5-1 and/or Rule 10b-18 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). We did not repurchase any shares during the six months
ended December 31, 2019, compared to 156,423 shares of the Company’s common stock totaling $0.6 million during the six months
ended December 31, 2018. All repurchased stock was retired. We may purchase up to 381,119 additional shares pursuant to our previously
announced repurchase plan.
 
Liquidity
 
We
had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $50.2 million at December 31, 2019, compared to working
capital of $48.8 million at June 30, 2019. At December 31, 2019, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures.
 
As
of December 31, 2019, less than 0.1% of our cash was in foreign accounts, and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would
need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months. Based upon our existing
cash balances, equity securities, and available-for-sale investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow
in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital
requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of this report.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 
We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements
as of December 31, 2019.
 


29
 

 
Recent Accounting Guidance
 
See “Note 2. Recent Accounting Guidance,”
to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting standards, including the respective
expected dates of adoption and the expected effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain statements made or incorporated
by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of
the federal securities laws. When used or incorporated by reference in this report, the words “believes,” “expects,”
 “estimates,” “anticipates,” and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Statements regarding future events and developments, our future performance, payment of dividends, ability to utilize our net deferred
tax assets and availability of earnings and profits with respect to dividend income, as well as our expectations, beliefs, plans,
estimates or projections relating to the future and current assessments of business opportunities, are forward-looking statements
within the meaning of these laws. Examples of our forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, the
ability of the Board of Directors and Asset Management Committee to identify suitable business opportunities and acquisition targets
and the Company’s ability to consummate transactions with such acquisition targets; our ability to successfully develop our
real estate and MCA operations, the impact of any strategic initiatives we may undertake; the impact of the current reestablishment
of and potential for future release of our tax valuation allowances on future income tax provisions and income taxes paid; expected
level of capital additions; our expected cash position; the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuation in currency exchange
rates; our sufficiency of cash; and the impact of litigation and the payment of any declared dividends. These statements are based
on beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are based on currently available information. All forward-looking statements
are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events to differ materially from those projected. The risks
and uncertainties which could affect our financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation: the process
of evaluating strategic alternatives; the Company’s ability to compete with experienced investors in the acquisition of one
or more additional businesses, our ability to utilize our net operating losses to offset cash taxes, in general, and in the event
of an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Service; changes in and related uncertainties caused by changes in applicable
tax laws, the current macroeconomic environment generally and with respect to acquisitions and the financing thereof; continuing
unevenness of the global economic recovery; the availability of debt or equity financing to support any liquidity needs; global
terrorism; and earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters.
 
Our forward-looking statements are based
on current expectations and speak only as of the date of such statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise
any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of future events, new information or otherwise, except as may be required by
federal securities law.
 
Other important risk factors that could
cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made in this report are discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors”
in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 and in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report
or elsewhere herein.
 

Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
Pursuant to Item 305(e) of Regulation S-K
(Section 229.305(e)), the Company is not required to provide the information required by this Item as it is a “smaller reporting
company” as defined by Rule 229.10(f)(1).
 

Item 4.Controls and Procedures
 
Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
 
As of December 31, 2019, our management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness and design of our
disclosure controls and procedures (as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act). Based upon that evaluation,
our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective
as of December 31, 2019.
 


30
 

 
Changes in Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting
 
There have been no changes in our internal
controls over financial reporting (as defined by Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during the three months ended December 31, 2019
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.
 
Part
II - Other Information
 

Item 1.Legal Proceedings
 
We are, from time to time, party to various
routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. While the resolution of any such matter cannot be predicted with certainty,
we are not presently involved in any litigation, nor is any legal proceeding currently threatened against us, that we believe,
individually or in the aggregate, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.
 


Item 1A.Risk Factors
 
There have been no material changes in our
risk factors from those included in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 2019.
 

Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
 
None.
 

Item 6.Exhibits 
 


 


31
 

 

 
* Filed herewith
** Furnished herewith
 


32
 

 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned
thereunto duly authorized.
 


Date: February 5, 2020
 
CCUR HOLDINGS, INC.

 
 
 


By:
/s/ Warren Sutherland

 
 
Warren Sutherland

 
 
Chief Financial Officer

 
 
(Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer)

 


33

 



