
10-Q
1
d851326d10q.htm
FORM 10-Q

Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
Washington, D.C. 20549  FORM 10-Q   


[X]
 QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the quarterly period ended December 31, 2019 
or   


[  ]
 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from                to
                Commission File Number:
0-22444   
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 








 Title of each class
  
 Trading
Symbol(s)
  
 Name of each exchange
on which registered

Common Stock, par value $.01
  
WVFC
  
NASDAQ Global Market SM
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirement for the past
90 days.      YES  X    NO      Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).      YES  X        NO     
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   






Large accelerated filer         
 
    Accelerated filer         

Non-accelerated filer         
 
    Smaller reporting company   X  


 
    Emerging growth company         
 If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the
extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13 (a) of the Exchange Act.               
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).      YES        NO X  
Shares outstanding as of February 12, 2020: 1,935,641 shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value. 


Table of Contents
WVS FINANCIAL CORP. AND SUBSIDIARY 
INDEX   

  2 


Table of Contents
WVS FINANCIAL CORP. AND SUBSIDIARY 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  (UNAUDITED)
 (In thousands, except share and per share data)   
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements. 
  3 


Table of Contents
WVS FINANCIAL CORP. AND SUBSIDIARY 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME  (UNAUDITED)
 (In thousands, except share and per share data)   
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements. 
  4 


Table of Contents
WVS FINANCIAL CORP. AND SUBSIDIARY 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 
(UNAUDITED)  (In thousands) 
 
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements. 
  5 


Table of Contents
WVS FINANCIAL CORP. AND SUBSIDIARY 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
(UNAUDITED)  (In thousands) 
 
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements. 
  6 


Table of Contents
WVS FINANCIAL CORP. AND SUBSIDIARY 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
(UNAUDITED)  (In thousands) 
 
 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements. 
  7 


Table of Contents
WVS FINANCIAL CORP. AND SUBSIDIARY 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
(UNAUDITED)  (In thousands) 
 

  See accompanying notes to unaudited
consolidated financial statements.    8 


Table of Contents
WVS FINANCIAL CORP. AND SUBSIDIARY 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
(UNAUDITED)  (In thousands) 
 

  See accompanying notes to unaudited
consolidated financial statements.    9 


Table of Contents
WVS FINANCIAL CORP. AND SUBSIDIARY 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   


1.
 BASIS OF PRESENTATION 
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the instructions for Form 10-Q and therefore do not include information or footnotes necessary for a complete presentation of financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP). However, all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation have been included. The results of operations for the three and six months ended
December 31, 2019, are not necessarily indicative of the results which may be expected for the entire fiscal year.   


2.
 RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses: Measurement
of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (“ASU 2016-13”), which changes the impairment model for most financial assets. This ASU is intended to improve financial reporting by requiring timelier
recording of credit losses on loans and other financial instruments held by financial institutions and other organizations. The underlying premise of the ASU is that financial assets measured at amortized cost should be presented at the net amount
expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis. The allowance for credit losses should reflect management’s current estimate of credit losses that are expected to occur over the
remaining life of a financial asset. The income statement will be effected for the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets, as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place
during the period. ASU 2016-13 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and early adoption is permitted for annual and interim periods beginning after
December 15, 2018. With certain exceptions, transition to the new requirements will be through a cumulative effect adjustment to opening retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is adopted. In
November 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-10, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), and Leases (Topic 842). This Update defers the effective date of
ASU 2016-13 for SEC filers that are eligible to be smaller reporting companies, non-SEC filers, and all other companies to fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2022, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We expect to recognize a one-time cumulative effect adjustment to the allowance for loan losses as of the beginning of the first reporting period in
which the new standard is effective, but cannot yet determine the magnitude of any such one-time adjustment or the overall impact of the new guidance on the consolidated financial statements. 
In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation – Stock Compensation (Topic
718), which simplified the accounting for nonemployee share-based payment transactions. The amendments in this update expand the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees.
The amendments in this Update improve the following areas of nonemployee share-based payment accounting; (a) the overall measurement objective, (b) the measurement date, (c) awards with performance conditions, (d) classification
reassessment of certain equity-classified awards, (e) calculated value (nonpublic entities only), and (f) intrinsic value (nonpublic entities only). The amendments in this Update are effective for public business entities for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. For all other entities, the amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2020. This Update is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s financial statements. 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure
Framework – Changes the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurements. The Update removes the requirement to disclose the amount of and reasons for transfers between Level I and Level II of the fair value hierarchy; the policy for
timing of transfers between levels; and the valuation processes for 
  10 


Table of Contents

Level III fair value measurements. The Update requires disclosure of changes in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in other comprehensive income (loss) for recurring Level III
fair value measurements held at the end of the reporting period and the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level III fair value measurements. This Update is effective for all entities for fiscal years, and
interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of the standard will have on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, Compensation – Retirement Benefits (Topic 715-20). This Update amends ASC 715 to add, remove and clarify disclosure requirements related to defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. The Update eliminates the requirement to disclose the
amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized as part of net periodic benefit cost over the next year. The Update also removes the disclosure requirements for the effects of a
one-percentage-point change on the assumed health care costs and the effect of this change in rates on service cost, interest cost and the benefit obligation for postretirement health care benefits. This
Update is effective for public business entities for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020, and must be applied on a retrospective basis. For all other entities, this Update is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15,
2021. This standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 
In November, 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-19, Codification Improvements to Topic 326,
Financial Instruments – Credit Losses, which amended the effective date of ASU 2016-13 for entities other than public business entities (PBEs), by requiring
non-PBEs to adopt the standard for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Therefore, the revised effective dates of ASU 2016-13 for PBEs that are SEC filers will be fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those years, PBEs other than SEC filers will be for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2020, including interim periods within those years, and all other entities (non-PBEs) will be for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021, including interim periods within those
years. The ASU also clarifies that receivables arising from operating leases are not within the scope of Subtopic 326-20. Rather, impairment of receivables arising from operating leases should be accounted for
in accordance with Topic 842, Leases. The effective date and transition requirements for ASU 2018-19 are the same as those in ASU 2016-13, as amended by ASU 2018-19. In November, 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-10, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), and Leases (Topic 842).
The Update defers the effective date of ASU 2016-13 for SEC filers that are eligible to be smaller reporting companies, non-SEC filers and all other companies to fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2022, including interim periods within those fiscal years. This Update is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s financial statements. 
In April 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-04, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial
Instruments – Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments, which affects a variety of topics in the Codification and applies to all reporting entities within the scope of the affected accounting
guidance. Topic 326, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses amendments are effective for SEC registrants for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years. For all other public business
entities, the effective date is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, and for all other entities, the effective date is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021. Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging amendments
are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. For all other entities, the amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2019, and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2020. For entities that have adopted the amendments in Update 2017-12, the effective date is as of the beginning of the first
annual period beginning after the issuance of this Update. Topic 825, Financial Instruments amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within fiscal years. In November 2019,
the FASB issued ASU 2019-10, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), and Leases (Topic 842). This Update defers the effective date of ASU 2016-13 for SEC filers that are eligible to be smaller reporting companies, non-SEC filers and all other companies to fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022,
including interim periods within those fiscal years. Furthermore, the ASU provides a one-year deferral of the effective dates of the ASUs on derivatives and hedging for companies that are not public business
entities. The Company qualifies as a smaller reporting company and does not expect to early adopt these ASUs. 
  11 


Table of Contents
In May 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-05,
Financial Instruments – Credit Losses, Topic 326, which allows entities to irrevocably elect the fair value option for certain financial assets previously measured at amortized cost upon adoption of the new credit losses standard. To be
eligible for the transition election, the existing financial asset must otherwise be both within the scope of the new credit losses standard and eligible for applying the fair value option in ASC 825-10.3. The
election must be applied on an instrument-by-instrument basis and is not available for either
available-for-sale or held-to-maturity debt securities. For entities that elect the fair
value option, the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the financial asset would be recognized through a cumulative-effect adjustment to opening retained earnings as of the date an entity adopted ASU 2016-13. Changes in fair value of that financial asset would subsequently be reported in current earnings. For entities that have not yet adopted ASU 2016-13, the effective
dates and transition requirements are the same as those in ASU 2016-13. For entities that have adopted ASU 2016-13, ASU 2019-05
is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted once ASU 2016-13 has been adopted. In November 2019, the
FASB issued ASU 2019-10, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), and Leases (Topic 842). The Update defers the effective date of ASU 2016-13 for SEC filers that are eligible to be smaller reporting companies, non-SEC filers and all other companies to fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022,
including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company qualifies as a smaller reporting company and does not expect to early adopt ASU 2016-13. 
In July 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-07, Codification Updates to SEC Sections, Amendments
to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Final Rule Releases No. 33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, and Nos. 33-10231 and 33-10442, Investment Company Reporting Modernization, and Miscellaneous Updates. This ASU amends various SEC paragraphs pursuant to the issuance of SEC Final Rule Releases
No. 33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, and Nos. 33-10231 and 33-10442, Investment Company Reporting
Modernization. Other miscellaneous updates to agree to the electronic Code of Federal Regulations also have been incorporated. 
In November 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-08, Compensation – Stock Compensation (Topic
718) and Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which requires entities to measure and classify share-based payments to a customer, in accordance with the guidance in ASC 718, Compensation – Stock Compensation. The
amendments in that Update expanded the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees and, in doing so, superseded guidance in Subtopic
505-50, Equity – Equity-Based Payments to Non-Employees. The amount that would be recorded as a reduction in revenue would be measured based on the grant date fair value of the share-based
payment, in accordance with Topic 718. The grant date is the date at which a supplier and customer reach a mutual understanding of the award’s key terms and conditions. The award’s classification and subsequent measurement would be subject
to ASC 718 unless the award is modified or the grantee is no longer a customer. For entities that have not yet adopted the amendments in Update 2018-07, the amendments in this Update are effective for
(1) public business entities in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years, and (2) other than public business entities in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and
interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020. For entities that have adopted the amendments in Update 2018-07, the amendments in this Update are effective in fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years. An entity may early adopt the amendments in this Update, but not before it adopts the amendments in Update 2018-07. This
Update is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s financial statements.  In November 2019, the FASB issued
ASU 2019-10, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), and Leases (Topic 842). The Update defers the effective dates of ASU 2016-13 for SEC filers that are eligible to be smaller reporting companies, non-SEC filers, and all other companies to fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022,
including interim periods within those fiscal years. This Update also amends the mandatory effective date for the elimination of Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test under ASU No. 2017-04,
Intangibles – Goodwill and Other  
  12 


Table of Contents

(Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (Goodwill), to align with those used for credit losses. Furthermore, the ASU provides a
one-year deferral of the effective dates of the ASUs on derivatives and hedging and leases for companies that are not public business entities. The Company qualifies as a smaller reporting company and does not
expect to early adopt these ASUs.  In November 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-11,
Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses, to clarify its new credit impairment guidance in ASC 326, based on implementation issues raised by stakeholders. This Update clarified, among other things, that
expected recoveries are to be included in the allowance for credit losses for these financial assets; an accounting policy election can be made to adjust the effective interest rate for existing troubled debt restructurings based on the prepayment
assumptions instead of the prepayment assumptions applicable immediately prior to the restructuring event; and extends the practical expedient to exclude accrued interest receivable from all additional relevant disclosures involving amortized cost
basis. The effective dates in this Update are the same as those applicable for ASU 2019-10. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of the standard will have on the Company’s financial
position or results of operations.  In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-12, Income
Taxes (Topic 740), to simplify the accounting for income taxes, change the accounting for certain tax transactions, and make minor improvements to the codification. This Update provides a policy election to not allocate consolidated income taxes
when a member of a consolidated tax return is not subject to income tax and provides guidance to evaluate whether a step-up in tax basis of goodwill relates to a business combination in which book goodwill was
recognized or a separate transaction. The Update also changes current guidance for making an intraperiod allocation, if there is a loss in continuing operations and gains outside of continuing operations; determining when a deferred tax liability is
recognized after an investor in a foreign entity transitions to or from the equity method of accounting; accounting for tax law changes and year-to-date losses in
interim periods; and determining how to apply the income tax guidance to franchise taxes that are partially based on income. For public business entities, the amendments in this Update are effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those
fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2020. For all other entities, the amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022. The
Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of the standard will have on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 
  13 


Table of Contents


3.
 REVENUE RECOGNITION 
Effective July 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update ASU 2014-09,
Revenue from contracts with Customers – Topic 606, and all subsequent ASUs that modified ASC 606. The Company has elected to apply the standard to all prior periods presented utilizing the full retrospective approach. The implementation
of the new standard had no material impact to the measurement or recognition of revenue of prior periods. Management determined that the primary sources of revenue emanating from interest and dividend income on loans and investments along with
noninterest revenue resulting from investment security gains, and earnings on bank owned life insurances are not within the scope of ASC 606. As a result, no changes were made during the period related to these sources of revenue. The main types of
noninterest income within the scope of the standard are as follows: Service Charges on deposit accounts—the Company has contracts with its deposit customers where fees are charged if certain parameters are not met. These agreements can be
cancelled at any time by either the Company or the deposit customer. Revenue from these transactions is recognized on a monthly basis as the Company has an unconditional right to the fee consideration. The Company also has transaction fees related
to specific transactions or activities resulting from a customer request or activity that include overdraft fees, online banking fees, interchange fees, ATM fees and other transaction fees. All of these fees are attributable to specific performance
obligations of the Company where the revenue is recognized at a defined point in time upon the completion of the requested service/transaction.   


4.
 EARNINGS PER SHARE 
The following table sets forth the computation of the weighted-average common shares used to calculate basic and diluted earnings per
share.   
 There are no convertible securities that would affect the numerator in calculating basic and diluted
earnings per share; therefore, net income as presented on the Consolidated Statement of Income is used.  At December 31, 2019,
all options outstanding had expired. At December 31, 2018, there were 27,019 options outstanding with an exercise price of $16.20 which were anti-dilutive for the three month period and dilutive for the six month period. 
  14 


Table of Contents


5.
 STOCK BASED COMPENSATION DISCLOSURE 
The Company previously maintained 2008 Stock Incentive Plan (the “Plan”), which was approved by shareholders in October 2008,
permitted the grant of stock options or restricted shares to its directors and employees for up to 152,000 shares (up to 38,000 restricted shares may be issued). Option awards were generally granted with an exercise price equal to the market price
of the Company’s stock at the date of grant; those option awards generally vested over five years of continuous service and have ten-year contractual terms. The Plan expired by its terms in September
2018.  During the six month periods ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded no compensation expense related to
our share-based compensation awards. As of December 31, 2019, there was no unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based compensation awards granted in fiscal 2009. 
There were no stock options exercised or issued during the six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. 
 


6.
 INVESTMENT SECURITIES 
The amortized cost and fair values of investments are as follows: 
 
   1 U.S. dollar denominated investment-grade corporate bonds of large foreign corporate issuers. 
  15 


Table of Contents
 Proceeds from sales of investments during the three and six month periods ended December 31, 2019
were $9.1 million and the Company recorded gross realized investment gains of $32 thousand during these same periods. 
Proceeds from sales of investments during the six month period ended December 31, 2018 were $1.4 million and the Company
recorded gross realized investment losses of $2 thousand during this same period. There were no sales of investment securities during the quarter ended December 31, 2018. 
  1
U.S. dollar denominated investment-grade corporate bonds of large foreign corporate issuers. 
  16 


Table of Contents
The amortized cost and fair values of debt securities at December 31, 2019, by
contractual maturity, are shown below. Expected maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call securities prior to their final maturities. 
 
 At December 31, 2019, investment securities with amortized cost of $3.5 million, and fair
value of $3.6 million were pledged to secure borrowings with the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”). 
  17 


Table of Contents


7.
 MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES 
Mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”) include mortgage pass-through certificates (“PCs”) and collateralized mortgage
obligations (“CMOs”). With a pass-through security, investors own an undivided interest in the pool of mortgages that collateralize the PCs. Principal and interest is passed through to the investor as it is generated by the mortgages
underlying the pool. PCs and CMOs may be insured or guaranteed by Freddie Mac (“FHLMC”), Fannie Mae (“FNMA”) and the Government National Mortgage Association (“GNMA”). CMOs may also be privately issued with varying
degrees of credit enhancements. A CMO reallocates mortgage pool cash flow to a series of bonds (called tranches) with varying stated maturities, estimated average lives, coupon rates and prepayment characteristics. 
The Company’s CMO portfolio is comprised of two segments: CMOs backed by U.S. Government Agencies (“Agency CMOs”) and
CMOs backed by single-family whole loans not guaranteed by a U.S. Government Agency (“private-label CMOs”).  At
December 31, 2019, the Company’s Agency CMOs totaled $103.2 million as compared to $107.4 million at June 30, 2019. The Company’s private-label CMOs totaled $785 thousand at December 31, 2019 as compared to
$883 thousand at June 30, 2019. The $4.4 million decrease in the CMO portfolio was primarily due to repayments on our Agency and private-label CMOs which totaled $4.3 million and $87 thousand, respectively. At
December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019, all of the Company’s MBS portfolio, including CMOs, were comprised of adjustable or floating rate investments. All of the Company’s floating rate MBS adjust monthly based upon changes in the
one month London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). The Company has no investment in multi-family or commercial real estate based MBS. 
Due to prepayments of the underlying loans, and the prepayment characteristics of the CMO tranches, the actual maturities of the
Company’s MBS are expected to be substantially less than the scheduled maturities.  The Company retains an independent third
party to assist it in the determination of a fair value for its three private-label CMOs. This valuation is meant to be a “Level Three” valuation as defined by ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures. The valuation
does not represent the actual terms or prices at which any party could purchase the securities. There is currently no active secondary market for private-label CMOs and there can be no assurance that any secondary market for private-label CMOs will
develop. The Company recorded an additional credit impairment charge of $16 thousand on its private-label CMO portfolio during the quarter ended December 31, 2019. 
The Company believes that the data and assumptions used to determine the fair values are reasonable. The fair value calculations reflect
relevant facts and market conditions. Events and conditions occurring after the valuation date could have a material effect on the private-label CMO segment’s fair value. 
  18 


Table of Contents
The following table sets forth information with respect to the Company’s private-label
CMO portfolio as of December 31, 2019. At the time of purchase, all of our private-label CMOs were rated in the highest investment category by at least two ratings agencies. 
 
 The amortized cost and fair values of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities are as follows: 
 
   2 Fair value estimate provided by the Company’s independent third party valuation consultant. 
  19 


Table of Contents
The amortized cost and fair value of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities at
December 31, 2019, by contractual maturity, are shown below. Expected maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. 
 
 At December 31, 2019, mortgage-backed securities with amortized costs of $103.2 million and
fair values of $103.3 million were pledged to secure public deposits and borrowings with the FHLB. Of the securities pledged, $8.3 million of fair value was excess collateral. At June 30, 2018, mortgage-backed securities with an
amortized cost of $107.4 million and fair values of $107.8 million, were pledged to secure public deposits and borrowings with the FHLB. Of the securities pledged, $2.4 million of fair value was excess collateral. Excess collateral is
maintained to support future borrowings and may be withdrawn by the Company at any time. 
  20 


Table of Contents


8.
 ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
The following tables present the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income by component, for the three and six months ended
December 31, 2019 and 2018.   

  21 


Table of Contents

  22 


Table of Contents


9.
 UNREALIZED LOSSES ON SECURITIES 
The following tables show the Company’s gross unrealized losses and fair value, aggregated by category and length of time that the
individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, at December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019.   
 For debt securities, impairment is considered to be other than temporary if an entity (1) intends
to sell the security, (2) more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovering its amortized cost basis, or (3) does not expect to recover the security’s entire amortized cost basis (even if the entity does not
intend to sell the security). In addition, impairment is considered to be other than temporary if the present value of cash flows expected to be collected from the debt security is less than the amortized cost basis of the security (any such
shortfall is referred to as a credit loss).  The Company evaluates outstanding available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities in an unrealized loss position (i.e., impaired securities) for
other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) on a quarterly basis. In doing so, the Company considers many factors including, but not limited to: the credit ratings assigned to the securities by the Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating
Organizations (“NRSROs”); other indicators of the credit quality of the issuer; the strength of the provider of any guarantees; the length of time and extent that fair value has been less than amortized cost; and whether 
   
3 U.S. dollar denominated investment-grade corporate bonds of large foreign corporate issuers.

  23 


Table of Contents

the Company has the intent to sell the security or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before its anticipated recovery. In the case of its private label residential MBSs,
the Company also considers prepayment speeds, the historical and projected performance of the underlying loans and the credit support provided by the subordinate securities. These evaluations are inherently subjective and consider a number of
quantitative and qualitative factors.  The following table presents a roll-forward of the credit loss component of the amortized
cost of mortgage-backed securities that we have written down for OTTI and the credit component of the loss that is recognized in earnings. OTTI recognized in earnings for credit impaired mortgage-backed securities is presented as additions in two
components based upon whether the current period is the first time the mortgage-backed security was credit-impaired (initial credit impairment) or is not the first time the mortgage-backed security was credit impaired (subsequent credit
impairments). The credit loss component is reduced if we sell, intend to sell or believe that we will be required to sell previously credit-impaired mortgage-backed securities. Additionally, the credit loss component is reduced if we receive cash
flows in excess of what we expected to receive over the remaining life of the credit impaired mortgage-backed securities, the security matures or is fully written down.   
 During the three months and six months ended December 31, 2019, the Company recorded subsequent
credit impairment charges of $16 thousand and $2 thousand, respectively. No non-credit unrealized holding losses to accumulated other comprehensive income were recorded during these same periods.
During the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, the Company accreted back into other comprehensive income $3 thousand and $6 thousand, respectively (net of income tax effect of $1 thousand and $2 thousand,
respectively), based on principal repayments on private-label CMOs previously identified with OTTI.  In the case of its
private-label residential CMOs that exhibit adverse risk characteristics, the Company employs models to determine the cash flows that it is likely to collect from the securities. These models consider borrower characteristics and the particular
attributes of the loans underlying the securities, in conjunction with assumptions about future changes in home prices and interest rates, to predict the likelihood a loan will default and the impact on default frequency, loss severity and remaining
credit enhancement. A significant input to these models is the forecast of future housing price changes for the relevant states and metropolitan statistical areas, which are based upon an assessment of the various housing markets. In general, since
the ultimate receipt of contractual payments on these securities will depend upon the credit and prepayment performance of the underlying loans and, if needed, the credit enhancements for the senior securities owned by the Company, the Company uses
these models to assess whether the credit enhancement associated with each security is sufficient to protect against likely losses of principal and interest on the underlying mortgage loans. The development of the modeling assumptions requires
significant judgment. 
  24 


Table of Contents
In conjunction with our adoption of ASC Topic 820, the Company retained an independent
third party to assist it with assessing its investments within the private-label CMO portfolio. The independent third party utilized certain assumptions for producing the cash flow analyses used in the OTTI assessment. Key assumptions would include
interest rates, expected market participant spreads and discount rates, housing prices, projected future delinquency levels and assumed loss rates on any liquidated collateral. 
The Company reviewed the independent third party’s assumptions used in the December 31, 2019 OTTI process. Based on the
results of this review, the Company deemed the independent third party’s assumptions to be reasonable and adopted them. However, different assumptions could produce materially different results, which could impact the Company’s conclusions
as to whether an impairment is considered other-than-temporary and the magnitude of the credit loss. The Company had three private-label CMOs with OTTI at December 31, 2019. 
If the Company intends to sell an impaired debt security, or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovery
of its amortized cost basis, the impairment is other-than-temporary and is recognized currently in earnings in an amount equal to the entire difference between fair value and amortized cost. The Company does not anticipate selling its private-label
CMO portfolio, nor does Management believe that the Company will be required to sell these securities before recovery of this amortized cost basis. 
In instances in which the Company determines that a credit loss exists but the Company does not intend to sell the security and it is
not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before the anticipated recovery of its remaining amortized cost basis, the OTTI is separated into (1) the amount of the total impairment related to the credit loss
and (2) the amount of the total impairment related to all other factors (i.e., the noncredit portion). The amount of the total OTTI related to the credit loss is recognized in earnings and the amount of the total OTTI related to all other
factors is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss. The total OTTI is presented in the Consolidated Statement of Income with an offset for the amount of the total OTTI that is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Absent the
intent or requirement to sell a security, if a credit loss does not exist, any impairment is considered to be temporary.  Regardless
of whether an OTTI is recognized in its entirety in earnings or if the credit portion is recognized in earnings and the noncredit portion is recognized in other comprehensive income (loss), the estimation of fair values has a significant impact on
the amount(s) of any impairment that is recorded.  The noncredit portion of any OTTI losses on securities classified as available-for-sale is adjusted to fair value with an offsetting adjustment to the carrying value of the security. The fair value adjustment could increase or decrease the
carrying value of the security. All of the Company’s private-label CMOs were originally, and continue to be classified, as held to maturity. 
In periods subsequent to the recognition of an OTTI loss, the other-than-temporarily impaired debt security is accounted for as if it
had been purchased on the measurement date of the OTTI at an amount equal to the previous amortized cost basis less the credit-related OTTI recognized in earnings. For debt securities for which credit-related OTTI is recognized in earnings, the
difference between the new cost basis and the cash flows expected to be collected is accreted into interest income over the remaining life of the security in a prospective manner based on the amount and timing of future estimated cash flows. 
The Company had investments in 37 positions that were impaired at December 31, 2019. Based on its analysis, management has
concluded that three private-label CMOs are other-than-temporarily impaired, while the remaining securities portfolio has experienced unrealized losses and a decrease in fair value due to interest rate volatility, illiquidity in the marketplace, or
credit deterioration in the U.S. mortgage markets. 
  25 


Table of Contents


10.
 LOANS AND RELATED ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES 
The following table summarizes the primary segments of the loan portfolio as of December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019. 
 
 Impaired loans are loans for which it is probable the Company will not be able to collect all amounts
due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. The Company collectively evaluates for impairment 1 – 4 family first mortgage loans and all consumer loans. The following loan categories are individually evaluated for impairment:
first mortgage loans – construction, land acquisition and development, multi-family dwellings, and commercial. The Company evaluates commercial loans not secured by real property individually for impairment. 
The definition of “impaired loans” is not the same as the definition of “nonaccrual loans,” although the two
categories overlap. The Company may choose to place a loan on nonaccrual status due to payment delinquency or uncertain collectability, while not classifying the loan as impaired if the loan is not a commercial or commercial real estate loan.
Factors considered by management in determining impairment include payment status and collateral value. The amount of impairment for these types of impaired loans is determined by the difference between the present value of the expected cash flows
related to the loan, using the original interest rate, and its recorded value, or as a practical expedient in the case of collateralized loans, the difference between the fair value of the collateral and the recorded amount of the loans. When
foreclosure is probable, impairment is measured based on the fair value of the collateral.  Loans that experience insignificant
payment delays, which are defined as 90 days or less, generally are not classified as impaired. Management determines the significance of payment delays on a
case-by-case basis taking into consideration all circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower, including the length of the delay, the borrower’s prior
payment record, and the amount of shortfall in relation to the principal and interest owed.  As of December 31, 2019 and
June 30, 2019 there were no loans considered to be impaired. 
  26 


Table of Contents
Total nonaccrual loans as of December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019 and the related
interest income recognized for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 are as follows:   
  
 During the quarter ended September 30, 2019, the Company’s one
non-performing asset consisting of a single-family real estate loan was discharged from bankruptcy and was not delinquent at December 31, 2019. 
The Company’s loan portfolio may also include troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”), where economic concessions have been
granted to borrowers who have experienced or are expected to experience financial difficulties. These concessions typically result from the Company’s loss mitigation activities and could include reductions in the interest rate, payment
extensions, forgiveness of principal, forbearance or other actions. Certain TDRs are classified as nonperforming at the time of restructure and may only be returned to performing status after considering the borrower’s sustained repayment
performance for a reasonable period, generally six months.  During the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, and
December 31, 2018, there were no TDRs.  When the Company modifies a loan, management evaluates any possible impairment based on
the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the contractual interest rate of the original loan agreement, except when the sole (remaining) source of repayment for the loan is the operation or liquidation of the collateral. In
these cases, management uses the current fair value of the collateral, less 
  27 


Table of Contents

selling costs, instead of discounted cash flows. If management determines that the value of the modified loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan (net of previous charge-offs,
deferred loan fees or costs and unamortized premium or discount), impairment is recognized by segment or class of loan, as applicable, through an allowance estimate or a charge-off to the allowance. Segment
and class status is determined by the loan’s classification at origination.  The allowance for loan losses is established
through provisions for loan losses charged against income. Loans deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. The allowance is maintained at a level believed
adequate by management to absorb estimated potential loan losses. Management’s determination of the adequacy of the allowance is based on periodic evaluations of the loan portfolio considering past experience, current economic conditions,
composition of the loan portfolio and other relevant factors. This evaluation is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be susceptible to significant change. 
Federal regulations require that each insured savings institution classify its assets on a regular basis. In addition, in connection
with examinations of insured institutions, federal examiners have authority to identify problem assets and, if appropriate, classify them. There are three classifications for problem assets: “substandard”, “doubtful” and
“loss”. Substandard assets have one or more defined weaknesses and are characterized by the distinct possibility that the insured institution will sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected. Doubtful assets have the weaknesses
of those classified as substandard with the added characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in full on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions and values questionable, and there is a high possibility of loss. An
asset classified as loss is considered uncollectible and of such little value that continuance as an asset of the institution is not warranted. Another category designated “asset watch” is also utilized by the Bank for assets which do not
currently expose an insured institution to a sufficient degree of risk to warrant classification as substandard, doubtful or loss. Assets classified as substandard or doubtful require the institution to establish general allowances for loan losses.
If an asset or portion thereof is classified as loss, the insured institution must either establish specific allowances for loan losses in the amount of 100% of the portion of the asset classified loss, or
charge-off such amount. General loss allowances established to cover possible losses related to assets classified substandard or doubtful may be included in determining an institution’s regulatory
capital, while specific valuation allowances for loan losses do not qualify as regulatory capital.  The Company’s general
policy is to internally classify its assets on a regular basis and establish prudent general valuation allowances that are adequate to absorb losses that have not been identified but that are inherent in the loan portfolio. The Company maintains
general valuation allowances that it believes are adequate to absorb losses in its loan portfolio that are not clearly attributable to specific loans. The Company’s general valuation allowances are within the following general ranges: (1) 0% to
5% of assets subject to special mention; (2) 1.00% to 100% of assets classified substandard; and (3) 50% to 100% of assets classified doubtful. Any loan classified as loss is charged-off. To further monitor
and assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, loan delinquencies are reviewed to consider any developing problem loans. Based upon the procedures in place, considering the Company’s past charge-offs and recoveries and assessing the
current risk elements in the portfolio, management believes the allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2019, is adequate. 
  28 


Table of Contents
The following tables present the classes of the loan portfolio summarized by the aging
categories of performing loans and nonaccrual loans as of December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019:   

  29 


Table of Contents
Credit quality information 
The following tables represent credit exposure by internally assigned grades for the period ended December 31, 2019 and
June 30, 2019. The grading system analysis estimates the capability of the borrower to repay the contractual obligations of the loan agreements as scheduled or not at all. The Company’s internal credit risk grading system is based on
experiences with similarly graded loans.  The Company’s internally assigned grades are as follows: 
Pass – loans which are protected by the current net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or by the value of the underlying
collateral.  Special Mention – loans where a potential weakness or risk exists, which could cause a more serious problem if not
corrected.  Substandard – loans that have a well-defined weakness based on objective evidence and can be characterized by the
distinct possibility that the Company will sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected.  Doubtful – loans
classified as doubtful have all the weaknesses inherent in a substandard loan. In addition, these weaknesses make collection or liquidation in full highly questionable and improbable, based on existing circumstances. 
Loss – loans classified as loss are considered uncollectible, or of such value that continuance as a loan is not warranted. 
The primary credit quality indicator used by management in the 1 – 4 family and consumer loan portfolios is the performance status
of the loans. Payment activity is reviewed by Management on a monthly basis to determine how loans are performing. Loans are considered to be non-performing when they become 90 days delinquent, have a history
of delinquency, or have other inherent characteristics which Management deems to be weaknesses.  The following tables present the
Company’s internally classified construction, land acquisition and development, multi-family residential, commercial real estate and commercial (not secured by real estate) loans at December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019. 
 

  30 


Table of Contents
 The following table presents performing and non-performing 1
– 4 family residential and consumer loans based on payment activity for the periods ended December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019.   
 The Company determines its allowance for loan losses in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. The Company uses a systematic methodology as required by Financial Reporting Release No. 28 and the various Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council guidelines. The Company also endeavors to adhere to SEC Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 102 in connection with loan loss allowance methodology and documentation issues.  Our methodology used to
determine the allocated portion of the allowance is as follows. For groups of homogenous loans, we apply a loss rate to the groups’ aggregate balance. Our group loss rate reflects our historical loss experience. We may adjust these group rates
to compensate for changes in environmental factors; but our adjustments have not been frequent due to a relatively stable charge-off experience. The Company also monitors industry loss experience on similar
loan portfolio segments. We then identify loans for individual evaluation under ASC Topic 310. If the individually identified loans are performing, we apply a segment specific loss rate adjusted for relevant environmental factors, if necessary, for
those loans reviewed individually and considered individually impaired, we use one of the three methods for measuring impairment mandated by ASC Topic 310. Generally the fair value of collateral is used since our impaired loans are generally real
estate based. In connection with the fair value of collateral measurement, the Company generally uses an independent appraisal and determines costs to sell. The Company’s appraisals for commercial income based loans, such as multi-family and
commercial real estate loans, assess value based 
  31 


Table of Contents

upon the operating cash flows of the business as opposed to merely “as built” values. The Company then validates the reasonableness of our calculated allowances by: (1) reviewing
trends in loan volume, delinquencies, restructurings and concentrations; (2) reviewing prior period (historical) charge-offs and recoveries; and (3) presenting the results of this process, quarterly, to the Asset Classification Committee
and the Savings Bank’s Board of Directors. We then tabulate, format and summarize the current loan loss allowance balance for financial and regulatory reporting purposes. 
The Company had no unallocated loss allowance balance at December 31, 2019. 
The allowance for loan losses represents the amount which management estimates is adequate to provide for probable losses inherent in
its loan portfolio. The allowance method is used in providing for loan losses. Accordingly, all loan losses are charged to the allowance, and all recoveries are credited to it. The allowance for loan losses is established through a provision for
loan losses charged to operations. The provision for loan losses is based on management’s periodic evaluation of individual loans, economic factors, past loan loss experience, changes in the composition and volume of the portfolio, and other
relevant factors. The estimates used in determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, including the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected on impaired loans, are particularly susceptible to changes in the near term. 
  32 


Table of Contents
The following tables summarize the primary segments of the allowance for loan losses
(“ALLL”), segregated into the amount required for loans individually evaluated for impairment and the amount required for loans collectively evaluated for impairment as of December 31, 2019 and 2018. Activity in the allowance is
presented for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.   
  

  33 


Table of Contents
 During the three months and six months ended December 31, 2019, the ALLL decreased $8 thousand
and $18 thousand, respectively. For the three months ended December 31, 2019, the ALLL associated with the 1-4 family real estate loan portfolio decreased $14 thousand and was partially offset
by an $8 thousand increase in the ALLL associated with construction loans. During the six months ended December 31, 2019, the ALLL associated with 1 - 4 family real estate loans, construction and land acquisition and development loans
decreased by $7 thousand, $9 thousand and $6 thousand, respectively. The primary reason for the changes in the ALLL balances, both in total, and within the identified segments, is changes in applicable loan balances and the return of
one non-performing loan to performing status. 
  34 


Table of Contents
During the three and six months ending December 31, 2018, the ALLL increased
$14 thousand and $33 thousand, respectively. For the three months ended December 31, 2018, the ALLL associated with 1 - 4 family real estate loans increased $10 thousand and the ALLL associated with commercial loans increased
$7 thousand. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $4 thousand in the ALLL associated with the construction loan segment. During the six months ended December 31, 2018, the ALLL associated with 1 - 4 family real
estate loans, land acquisition and development loans and commercial loans increased by $17 thousand, $10 thousand and $4 thousand, respectively. The primary reason for the changes in the ALLL balances, both in total, and within the
identified segments, is changes in applicable loan balances.   


11.
 FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK (FHLB) ADVANCES 
The following table presents contractual maturities of FHLB long-term advances as of December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019. 
 
 Maturities of FHLB long-term advances at December 31, 2019, are summarized as follows: 
 
    


4 
 As of December 31, 2019. 
  35 


Table of Contents
The adjustable rate advances are not convertible or callable. The FHLB advances are secured
by the Company’s FHLB stock, mortgage-backed and investment securities, and loans, and are subject to substantial prepayment penalties. 
The Company also utilized revolving and short-term FHLB advances. Short-term FHLB advances generally mature within 90 days, while
revolving FHLB advances may be repaid by the Company without penalty. The following table presents information regarding such advances as of December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019: 
 
 At December 31, 2019, the Company had remaining borrowing capacity with the FHLB of approximately
$2.9 million.  The FHLB advances are secured by the Company’s FHLB stock, loans, and mortgage-backed and investment
securities held in safekeeping at the FHLB. FHLB advances are subject to substantial prepayment penalties.  The Company also has a
$5 million unsecured line of credit with a regional bank. Borrowings under this line of credit generally are repayable within seven days. At December 31, 2019, no borrowings were outstanding on this unsecured line. 
 


12.
 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS  
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most
advantageous market for an asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. GAAP established a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the use of inputs used in valuation methodologies into the
following three levels:   






Level I:
  

Quoted prices are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as 
of the reported date.




Level II:
  
 Pricing inputs are other than the quoted prices in active markets, which are either directly or indirectly observable as of the
reported date. The nature of these assets and liabilities includes items for which quoted prices are available but traded less frequently and items that are fair-valued using other financial instruments, the parameters of which can be directly
observed.




Level III:
  
 Assets and liabilities that have little to no pricing observability as of the reported date. These items do not have two-way markets and are measured using management’s best estimate of fair value, where the inputs into the determination of fair value require significant management judgment or estimation.

  36 


Table of Contents
Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
Investment Securities Available-for-Sale 
Fair values for securities available for sale are determined by obtaining quoted prices on nationally recognized securities exchanges or
matrix pricing, which is a mathematical technique widely used in the industry to value debt securities without relying exclusively on quoted prices for the specific securities, but rather by relying on the securities’ relationship to other
benchmark quoted securities. The Company has no Level I or Level III investment securities. Level II investment securities were primarily comprised of investment-grade corporate bonds and U.S. dollar-denominated investment-grade corporate bonds of
large foreign issuers.  The following tables present the assets reported on a recurring basis on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at
their fair value as of December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019, by level within the fair value hierarchy. As required by GAAP, financial assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is
significant to the fair value measurement.   
    


5 
 U.S. dollar-denominated investment-grade corporate bonds of large foreign corporate issuers. 
  37 


Table of Contents


13.
 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
The carrying amounts and estimated fair values are as follows:   

  38 


Table of Contents
 All financial instruments included in the above tables, with the exception of net loans receivable,
certificates of deposit liabilities, and FHLB advances – fixed rate, are carried at cost, which approximates the fair value of the instruments. 
  39 


Table of Contents
ITEM 2. 
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE AND SIX MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS  In the normal
course of business, we, in an effort to help keep our shareholders and the public informed about our operations, may from time to time issue or make certain statements, either in writing or orally, that are or contain forward-looking statements, as
that term is defined in the U.S. federal securities laws. Generally, these statements relate to business plans or strategies, projected or anticipated benefits from acquisitions made by or to be made by us, projections involving anticipated
revenues, earnings, profitability or other aspects of operating results or other future developments in our affairs or the industry in which we conduct business. Forward-looking statements may be identified by reference to a future period or periods
or by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “anticipated,” “believe,” ”expect,” ”intend,” “plan,” “estimate” or similar expressions. 
Although we believe that the anticipated results or other expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are based on
reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that those results or expectations will be attained. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions (some of which are beyond our control), and as a result actual results may
differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following, as well as those discussed elsewhere herein: 
 


 
•
 
 our investments in our businesses and in related technology could require additional incremental spending, and might not
produce expected deposit and loan growth and anticipated contributions to our earnings;   


 
•
 
 general economic or industry conditions could be less favorable than expected, resulting in a deterioration in credit
quality, a change in the allowance for loan losses or a reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in the interest rate environment could reduce net interest income and could increase credit losses;
  


 
•
 
 the conditions of the securities markets could change, which could adversely affect, among other things, the value or
credit quality of our assets, the availability and terms of funding necessary to meet our liquidity needs and our ability to originate loans and leases;   


 
•
 
 changes in the extensive laws, regulations and policies governing financial holding companies and their subsidiaries
could alter our business environment or affect our operations;   


 
•
 
 the potential need to adapt to industry changes in information technology systems, on which we are highly dependent,
could present operational issues or require significant capital spending;   


 
•
 
 competitive pressures could intensify and affect our profitability, including as a result of continued industry
consolidation, the increased availability of financial services from non-banks, technological developments such as the internet or bank regulatory reform; and 
 


 
•
 
 acts or threats of terrorism and actions taken by the United States or other governments as a result of such acts or
threats, including possible military action, could further adversely affect business and economic conditions in the United States generally and in our principal markets, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance and that of our
borrowers and on the financial markets and the price of our common stock. 
  40 


Table of Contents
You should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update them in light of new or future events except to the extent required by federal securities laws. 
GENERAL  WVS Financial Corp. (the
“Company”) is the parent holding company of West View Savings Bank (“West View” or the “Savings Bank”). The Company was organized in July 1993 as a Pennsylvania-chartered unitary bank holding company and acquired 100%
of the common stock of the Savings Bank in November 1993.  West View Savings Bank is a Pennsylvania-chartered, FDIC-insured stock
savings bank conducting business from six offices in the North Hills suburbs of Pittsburgh. The Savings Bank converted from the mutual to the stock form of ownership in November 1993. The Savings Bank had no subsidiaries at December 31, 2019.
 The operating results of the Company depend primarily upon its net interest income, which is determined by the difference between
income on interest-earning assets, principally loans, mortgage-backed securities and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, which consist primarily of deposits and borrowings. The Company’s net income is
also affected by its provision for loan losses, as well as the level of its non-interest income, including loan fees and service charges, and its non-interest expenses,
such as compensation and employee benefits, income taxes, deposit insurance and occupancy costs.  FINANCIAL CONDITION 
The Company’s assets totaled $355.2 million at December 31, 2019, as compared to $355.8 million at June 30,
2019. The $570 thousand or 0.2% decrease in total assets was principally due to a $4.4 million decrease in mortgage-backed securities and a $2.3 million decrease in interest-earning demand deposits, partially offset by a
$5.3 million increase in investment securities available-for-sale and a $752 thousand increase in net loans receivable. The decrease in mortgage-backed
securities was principally due to repayments of principal totaling $4.4 million and the decrease in interest-earning demand deposits is associated with changing liquidity needs of the Company. The increase in securities available-for-sale was primarily the result of purchases of floating rate investment-grade corporate bonds totaling $17.3 million, partially offset by securities sales of
$9.1 million and $3.3 million of maturities and calls. The increase in net loans receivable was primarily attributable to an increase in the single-family owner occupied segment of the loan portfolio. 
The Company’s total liabilities decreased $2.0 million or 0.6% to $317.7 million as of December 31, 2019 from
$319.8 million as of June 30, 2019. The decrease in total liabilities was primarily comprised of a $2.8 million or 4.0% decrease in FHLB short-term advances, which was partially offset by a $700 thousand increase in total
deposits. Certificates of deposit (“CDs”) increased by $4.5 million and non-interest bearing demand and savings deposit declined $1.7 million and $1.0 million, respectively, as of
December 31, 2019 from June 30, 2019. Management believes that the decrease in non-interest bearing demand deposits was primarily the result of seasonal fluctuations related to local real estate tax
collectors’ deposits. The increase in certificates of deposit was largely due to higher levels of brokered CDs as part of the Company’s overall funding strategy. See also Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
“Asset and Liability Management”.  Total stockholders’ equity increased $1.5 million or 4.1% to
$37.5 million as of December 31, 2019, from $36.0 million as of June 30, 2019. The increase in stockholders’ equity was primarily attributable to net income of $1.5 million, which was partially offset by cash dividends
totaling $354 thousand. 
  41 


Table of Contents
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
General. WVS Financial Corp. reported net income of $727 million or $0.41 per share (diluted and basic) for the three months
ended December 31, 2019 as compared to $685 thousand or $0.38 per share for the same period in 2018. The $42 thousand or 6.1% increase in net income during the three months ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to a
$12 thousand increase in non-interest income, a decrease in non-interest expense of $84 thousand and a $22 thousand decrease in the provision for loan
losses, which were partially offset by a $74 thousand decrease in net interest income, when compared to the same period of 2018. 
Net income for the six months ended December 31, 2019 totaled $1.5 million or $0.86 per share (diluted and basic) as compared
to $1.4 million or $0.80 per diluted share for the same period in 2018. The $88 thousand or 6.1% increase in net income during the six months ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to a $138 thousand decrease in non-interest expense and a $51 thousand decrease in the provision for loan losses, partially offset by a $71 thousand decrease in net interest income and a $42 thousand increase in income tax expense,
when compared to the same period in 2018.  Net Interest Income. The Company’s net interest income decreased by
$74 thousand or 4.3% for the three months ended December 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease in net interest income during the three months ended December 31, 2019 was attributable to a $172 thousand
decrease in interest income, partially offset by a $98 thousand decrease in interest expense for the three months ended December 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease in interest income for the three months ended
December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to lower market yields earned on the Company’s floating rate investment and mortgage-backed securities portfolio and lower average balances of mortgage-backed securities outstanding which were
partially offset by higher yields on Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) stock, and higher average balances of investment securities, loans and certificates of deposit when compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease in interest expense
for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to lower rates paid on FHLB short-term and variable rate long-term borrowings and lower average balances of FHLB short-term borrowings, which were partially offset by
higher average balances of wholesale time deposits and higher rates paid on time deposits when compared to the same period in 2018. 
For the six months ended December 31, 2019, net interest income decreased $71 thousand or 2.0% when compared to the same
period in 2018. The decrease in net interest income was primarily attributable to a $16 thousand decrease in interest income and a $55 thousand increase in interest expense for the six months ended December 31, 2019, when compared to
the same period in 2018. The decrease in interest income was primarily the result of lower average yields on the Company’s floating rate investment and mortgage-backed securities, and lower outstanding balances of floating rate mortgage-backed
securities partially offset by higher average outstanding balances of loans and investment securities, and higher yields earned on FHLB stock, when compared to the same period in 2018. The increase in interest expense was primarily attributable to
higher average balances outstanding of wholesale time deposits and higher yields paid on time deposits which were partially offset by lower yields paid on FHLB advances and lower average balances of FHLB advances outstanding during the six months
ended December 31, 2019, when compared to the same period of 2018.  Interest Income. Interest income on net loans
receivable increased $46 thousand or 5.6% and $126 thousand or 7.7% for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2018. The increase for the three and six months ended
December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to increases of $5.1 million and $5.4 million, respectively, in the average balance of net loans receivable when compared to the same periods in 2018. For both the quarter and six months
ended December 31, 2019, the increase in the average balance of loans outstanding was primarily attributable to loan originations and purchases in excess of repayments on new loans originated when compared to the same periods in 2018. During
fiscal 2018, 2019 and into fiscal 2020, the Company enjoyed higher demand for single-family home purchase loans. Substantially all of our loan originations and purchases were fixed-rate loans with a mix of 15, 20, and 30 year terms. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Interest income on investment securities decreased $69 thousand or 6.5% and
$10 thousand or 0.5% for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2018. The decrease for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to a 37 basis
point decrease in the weighted average yield on investment securities, partially offset by a $7.5 million increase in the average balance of investment securities outstanding, when compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease for the six
months ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to a decrease in the weighted average yield of 13 basis points, partially offset by a $5.0 million increase in the average balance of investment securities outstanding, when
compared to the same period in 2018. The increase in the average balance of investments outstanding during both periods is attributable to the redeployment of mortgage-backed securities cash flows into floating rate corporate bonds. The decrease in
weighted average yields in 2019 was principally attributable to lower three-month dollar London Interbank Offered Rates (“LIBOR”) when compared to the same periods in 2018. 
Interest income on mortgage-backed securities decreased $170 thousand or 18.3% and $174 thousand or 9.6% for the three and six
months ended December 31, 2019, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2018. The decrease for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to the $5.3 million decrease in the average balance of U.S.
Government agency mortgage-backed securities and a 47 basis point decrease in the weighted average yield earned on these securities. The decrease for the six months ended December 31, 2019 was also primarily attributable to $5.6 million
decline in the average balance of U.S. Government agency mortgage-backed securities and a 15 basis point decrease in the weighted average yield earned on these mortgage-backed securities, when compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease in the
average balances of U.S. Government and agency private-label mortgage-backed securities during the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 was attributable to principal pay downs during the periods. The mortgage-backed securities proceeds
during both periods were primarily used to fund purchases of floating rate corporate bonds in the investment portfolio and loan originations and purchases. The decrease in weighted average yields in 2019 was primarily attributable to higher one-month LIBOR when compared to the same periods in 2018.  Dividend income on FHLB stock
increased $14 thousand or 12.1% and $24 thousand or 10.5% for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2018. The change in dividends on FHLB stock for both the three and six
months ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable by a 96 basis point increase in the average yield on FHLB stock held during the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018. 
Interest income on bank certificates of deposit increased $12 thousand and $25 thousand for the three and six months ended
December 31, 2019, respectively, when compared to the same period in 2018. The increases in both periods of 2019 were primarily attributable to increases in the average portfolio balances of certificates of deposit of approximately
$2.0 million.  Interest Expense. Interest paid on FHLB variable-rate long-term advances and FHLB short-term
advances decreased by $74 thousand and $127 thousand, respectively, for the three months ended December 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. For the three months ended December 31, 2019, the decrease in interest
expense on the FHLB variable-rate long-term advances was principally due to lower market interest rates, when compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease in interest expense on FHLB short-term advances for the three months ended
December 31, 2019 reflects lower market interest rates as well as a $5.5 million decrease in the average balance of advances outstanding, when compared to the same period in 2018. Interest expense on FHLB short-term borrowings during the
six months ended December 31, 2019 decreased by $732 thousand or 54.4% primarily due to a decrease of $57.9 million in the average balance of advances outstanding, when compared to the same period of 2018. For the six months ended
December 31, 2019, interest expense on both FHLB long-term fixed and long-term variable FHLB advances increased by $116 thousand or 100.0% and $441 thousand or 83.8%, respectively, when compared to the same period in 2018. These
increases were primarily due to higher average balances of FHLB long-term advances outstanding during the six months ended December 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. 
  43 


Table of Contents
Interest expense on deposits increased $103 thousand or 79.8% and $230 thousand
or 91.3% for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2018. The increase in interest expense on deposits for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to
a 59 basis point increase in the weighted average rate paid on time deposits and a $14.3 million increase in the average balance of time deposits, when compared to the same period in 2018. For the six months ended December 31, 2019, the
$230 thousand increase in interest expense was primarily due to a 55 basis point increase in the weighted average rate paid on time deposits and a $14.6 million increase in the average balance of the time deposits, when compared to the
same period in 2018. The increases in the average balances of time deposits for both the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, were primarily attributable to higher levels of short-term brokered deposits when compared to the same
periods of 2018. From time to time the Company uses brokered deposits to fund investment purchases or as an alternative to FHLB borrowings if the cost of such deposits is less than other wholesale funding options. 
Provision for Loan Losses. A provision for loan losses is charged or accreted to earnings to bring the total allowance to a level
considered adequate by management to absorb potential losses in the portfolio. Management’s determination of the adequacy of the allowance is based on an evaluation of the portfolio considering past experience, current economic conditions,
volume, growth and composition of the loan portfolio, and other relevant factors.  During the three and six months ending
December 31, 2019, the allowance for loan losses (“ALLL”) decreased $8 thousand and $18 thousand, respectively. For the three months ended December 31, 2019, the ALLL associated with 1 - 4 family real estate loans
decreased $14 thousand and the ALLL associated with construction loans increased $8 thousand. During the six months ended December 31, 2019, the ALLL associated with 1 - 4 family real estate loans, construction land acquisition and
development loans decreased by $7 thousand, $9 thousand and $6 thousand, respectively. The primary reason for the changes in the ALLL balances, both in total, and within the identified segments, are changes in applicable loan balances
and the return of one non-performing loan to performing status.  At December 31, 2019,
the Company’s total allowance for loan losses amounted to $530 thousand or 0.58% of the Company’s total loan portfolio, as compared to $548 thousand or 0.60% at June 30, 2019. At December 31, 2019, the Company had no non-performing loans as compared to $225 thousand at June 30, 2019.  Non-Interest Income. Non-interest income increased $12 thousand or 10.9% for the three months ended December 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018.
The increase for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to a $32 thousand gain on the sale of investment securities and a $4 thousand increase in service charges on deposits which were offset by a
$16 thousand increase in other than temporary impairment losses on private label mortgage-backed securities, a $7 thousand decrease in automated teller machine (ATM) program income and a $1 thousand decrease in earnings on Bank-owned
life insurance, when compared to the same period in 2018.  For the six months ended December 31, 2019, non-interest income increased $12 thousand or 5.5%, when compared to the same period in 2018. The increase in non-interest income for the six months ended
December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to a $34 thousand gain on the sale of investment securities and a $5 thousand increase in service charges on deposits, which were offset by an $18 thousand increase in other than
temporary impairment losses on private label mortgage-backed securities, a $7 thousand decrease in ATM program income and a $2 thousand decrease in earnings on Bank-owned life insurance, when compared to the same period in 2018. 
Non-Interest Expense. Non-interest expense
decreased $84 thousand or 8.8% for the three months ended December 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease in non-interest expense for the three months ended
December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to a $30 thousand decrease in employee benefit costs, a $22 thousand decrease in federal deposit insurance expense, $20 thousand decrease in a variety of other operating expenses and a
$7 thousand decrease in ATM network expenses, when compared to the same period in 2018. Non-interest expense decreased $138 thousand or 7.4% for the six months ended December 31, 2019, when
compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease in non-interest expense for the six months ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to a 
  44 


Table of Contents

$73 thousand decrease in federal deposit insurance expense, a $41 thousand decrease in employee benefit expense and a $21 thousand decrease in ATM network expense, when compared to
the same period in 2018. The decrease in federal deposit insurance expense for both periods in 2019 was primarily attributable to the application of Small Bank Assessment Credits by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense increased $2 thousand and $42 thousand for the three and six months ended
December 31, 2019, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2018. The increases for both periods ended December 31, 2019, were primarily due higher levels of taxable income when compared to the same periods of 2018. 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  Net cash
provided by operating activities totaled $1.8 million during the six months ended December 31, 2019. Net cash provided by operating activities was primarily comprised of net income of $1.5 million and a $167 thousand decrease in
accrued interest receivable.  Funds used for investing activities totaled $608 thousand during the six months ended
December 31, 2019. Primary uses of funds during this period were purchases of investment securities available for sale totaling $17.3 million, purchases of loans totaling $6.3 million and purchases of certificates of deposit totaling
$1.3 million. Primary sources of funds during the six months ended December 31, 2019 included proceeds from repayments of investment securities and mortgage-backed securities in the held-to-maturity portfolio totaling $500 thousand and $4.4 million, respectively, proceeds from repayments of investment securities in the available-for-sale portfolio totaling $3.3 million, $9.1 million of proceeds on sales of investment securities available for sale and repayments of loans in excess of originations of
$5.6 million and $1.6 million of proceeds from maturing certificates of deposit.  Funds used for financing activities
totaled $2.6 million for the six months ended December 31, 2019. The primary uses were a $2.8 million decrease in FHLB short-term advances, a $3.2 million decrease in transaction and savings accounts, a $618 thousand
decrease in advance payments by borrowers for taxes and insurance and $354 thousand in cash dividends paid on the Company’s common stock, which were partially offset by increases in certificates of deposits totaling $4.5 million.
Management believes that a significant portion of our local maturing deposits will remain with the Company. Management has determined that it currently is maintaining adequate liquidity and continues to match funding sources with lending and
investment opportunities.  The Company’s primary sources of funds are deposits, amortization, repayments and maturities of
existing loans, mortgage-backed securities and investment securities, funds from operations, and funds obtained through FHLB advances and other borrowings. Certificates of deposit scheduled to mature in one year or less at December 31, 2019
totaled $38.7 million including $14.7 million of maturing wholesale time deposits.  Historically, the Company used its
sources of funds primarily to meet its ongoing commitments to pay maturing savings certificates and savings withdrawals, fund loan commitments and maintain a substantial portfolio of investment securities. At December 31, 2019, total approved
loan commitments outstanding were $2.6 million. At the same date, commitments under unused lines of credit amounted to $5.1 million and the unadvanced portion of construction loans approximated $3.6 million. The Company has been able
to generate sufficient cash through the retail deposit market, its traditional funding source, and through FHLB advances, and other wholesale funding sources, to provide the cash utilized in investing activities. The Company’s available for
sale segment of the investment portfolio totaled $138.1 million at December 31, 2019. In addition the Company had $1.6 million of certificates of deposit at December 31, 2019. Management believes that the Company currently has
adequate liquidity available to respond to liquidity demands.  On January 27, 2020, the Company’s Board of Directors
declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share, payable on February 20, 2020, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 10, 2020. Dividends are subject to determination and declaration by the Board of Directors,
which take into 
  45 


Table of Contents

account the Company’s financial condition, statutory and regulatory restrictions, general economic conditions and other factors. There can be no assurance that dividends will in fact be paid
on the Common Stock in future periods or that, if paid, such dividends will not be reduced or eliminated.  As of December 31,
2019, WVS Financial Corp. maintained Common Equity Tier I Capital, Tier I, and total risk-based capital equal to $37.2 million or 19.1%, $37.2 million or 19.1%, and $37.7 million or 19.4%, respectively, of total risk-weighted assets,
and Tier I leverage capital of $37.2 million or 10.4% of average quarterly assets.  Nonperforming assets consist of nonaccrual
loans and real estate owned. A loan is placed on nonaccrual status when, in the judgment of management, the probability of collection of interest is deemed insufficient to warrant further accrual. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status,
previously accrued but uncollected interest is deducted from interest income. The Company normally does not accrue interest on loans past due 90 days or more, however, interest may be accrued if management believes that it will collect on the loan.
 The Company had no nonperforming assets at December 31, 2019 compared to $225 thousand or 0.06% of total assets at
June 30, 2019.  During the quarter ended September 30, 2019, the Company’s one nonperforming single-family real
estate loan was discharged from bankruptcy and since that time has been current. 
  46 


Table of Contents


ITEM 3.
 
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
ASSET AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT 
The Company’s primary market risk exposure is interest rate risk and, to a lesser extent, liquidity risk. All of the Company’s
transactions are denominated in US dollars with no specific foreign exchange exposure. The Savings Bank has no agricultural loan assets and therefore would not have a specific exposure to changes in commodity prices. Any impacts that changes in
foreign exchange rates and commodity prices would have on interest rates are assumed to be exogenous and will be analyzed on an ex post basis. 
Interest rate risk (“IRR”) is the exposure of a banking organization’s financial condition to adverse movements in
interest rates. Accepting this risk can be an important source of profitability and shareholder value, however excessive levels of IRR can pose a significant threat to the Company’s earnings and capital base. Accordingly, effective risk
management that maintains IRR at prudent levels is essential to the Company’s safety and soundness.  Evaluating a financial
institution’s exposure to changes in interest rates includes assessing both the adequacy of the management process used to control IRR and the organization’s quantitative level of exposure. When assessing the IRR management process, the
Company seeks to ensure that appropriate policies, procedures, management information systems and internal controls are in place to maintain IRR at prudent levels with consistency and continuity. Evaluating the quantitative level of IRR exposure
requires the Company to assess the existing and potential future effects of changes in interest rates on its consolidated financial condition, including capital adequacy, earnings, liquidity, and, where appropriate, asset quality. 
Financial institutions derive their income primarily from the excess of interest collected over interest paid. The rates of interest an
institution earns on its assets and owes on its liabilities generally are established contractually for a period of time. Since market interest rates change over time, an institution is exposed to lower profit margins (or losses) if it cannot adapt
to interest-rate changes. For example, assume that an institution’s assets carry intermediate- or long-term fixed rates and that those assets were funded with short-term liabilities. If market interest rates rise by the time the short-term
liabilities must be refinanced, the increase in the institution’s interest expense on its liabilities may not be sufficiently offset if assets continue to earn at the long-term fixed rates. Accordingly, an institution’s profits could
decrease on existing assets because the institution will either have lower net interest income or, possibly, net interest expense. Similar risks exist when assets are subject to contractual interest-rate ceilings, or rate sensitive assets are funded
by longer-term, fixed-rate liabilities in a decreasing-rate environment.  During the fiscal years 2014 - 2019 and into fiscal year
2020, intermediate and long-term market interest rates fluctuated considerably. Many central banks, including the Federal Reserve, continued above normal levels of monetary accommodation including quantitative easing and targeted asset purchase
programs. The desired outcomes of these programs are to stimulate aggregate demand, reduce high levels of unemployment and to further lower market interest rates. 
The effect of interest rate changes on a financial institution’s assets and liabilities may be analyzed by examining the
“interest rate sensitivity” of the assets and liabilities and by monitoring an institution’s interest rate sensitivity “gap”. An asset or liability is said to be interest rate sensitive within a specific time period if it
will mature or reprice within a given time period. A gap is considered positive (negative) when the amount of rate sensitive assets (liabilities) exceeds the amount of rate sensitive liabilities (assets). During a period of falling interest rates, a
negative gap would tend to result in an increase in net interest income. During a period of rising interest rates, a positive gap would tend to result in an increase in net interest income. 
  47 


Table of Contents
As part of its asset/liability management strategy, the Company maintained an asset
sensitive financial position due to unusually low market interest rates. An asset sensitive financial position may benefit earnings during a period of rising interest rates and reduce earnings during a period of declining interest rates. 
The following table sets forth certain information at the dates indicated relating to the Company’s interest-earning assets and
interest-bearing liabilities which are estimated to mature or are scheduled to reprice within one year.   

  48 


Table of Contents
The following table illustrates the Company’s estimated stressed cumulative repricing
gap – the difference between the amount of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities expected to reprice at a given point in time – at December 31, 2019. The table estimates the impact of an upward or downward change in
market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points.  Cumulative Stressed Repricing Gap 
 
 The Company utilizes an income simulation model to measure interest rate risk and to manage interest
rate sensitivity. The Company believes that income simulation modeling may enable the Company to better estimate the possible effects on net interest income due to changing market interest rates. Other key model parameters include: estimated
prepayment rates on the Company’s loan, mortgage-backed securities and investment portfolios; savings decay rate assumptions; and the repayment terms and embedded options of the Company’s borrowings. 
  49 


Table of Contents
The following table presents the simulated impact of a 100 and 200 basis point upward or
downward (parallel) shift in market interest rates on net interest income, return on average equity, return on average assets and the market value of portfolio equity at December 31, 2019. This analysis was done assuming that the
interest-earning assets will average approximately $348 million and $350 million over a projected twelve and twenty-four month period, respectively, for the estimated impact on change in net interest income, return on average equity and
return on average assets. The estimated changes in market value of equity were calculated using balance sheet levels at December 31, 2019. Actual future results could differ materially from our estimates primarily due to unknown future interest
rate changes and the level of prepayments on our investment and loan portfolios.  Analysis of Sensitivity to Changes in Market Interest Rates
  
 The table below provides information about the Company’s anticipated transactions comprised of firm
loan commitments and other commitments, including undisbursed letters and lines of credit, at December 31, 2019. The Company used no derivative financial instruments to hedge such anticipated transactions as of December 31, 2019. 
 








Anticipated Transactions
 

  
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Undisbursed construction and land development loans
  
         $
3,573
 

 Undisbursed lines of credit
  
         $
5,119
 

 Loan origination commitments
  
         $
2,593
 

 Letters of credit
  
         $
 -
 


  
  
  
 


  
         $
  11,285
 


  
  
  
 

  50 


Table of Contents
In the ordinary course of its construction lending business, the Savings Bank enters into
performance standby letters of credit. Typically, the standby letters of credit are issued on behalf of a builder to a third party to ensure the timely completion of a certain aspect of a construction project or land development. At
December 31, 2019, the Savings Bank had no performance standby letters of credit outstanding. In the event that an obligor is unable to perform its obligations as specified in the applicable letter of credit agreement, the Savings Bank would be
obligated to disburse funds up to the amount specified in the letter of credit agreement. The Savings Bank maintains adequate collateral that could be liquidated to fund these contingent obligations. 
ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
As of December 31, 2019, an evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, on the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based on that evaluation, the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Accounting Officer, concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2019. 
Disclosure controls and procedures are the controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that the information required to be
disclosed by the Company in its reports filed and submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in its reports filed under the Exchange
Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the principal executive officer and principal accounting officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
During the quarter ended December 31, 2019, no change in the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting (as defined
in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) has occurred that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s
internal controls over financial reporting. 
  51 


Table of Contents
PART II—OTHER INFORMATION 
ITEM 1. Legal Proceedings 
(a)The Company is involved with various legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. Management believes the outcome of
these matters will have no material effect on the consolidated operations or consolidated financial condition of WVS Financial Corp. 
(b)Not applicable. 
ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 
There are no material changes to the risk factors included in Item 1A of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.  ITEM 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity
Securities and Use of Proceeds  (a) Not applicable. 
(b) Not applicable. 
(c) The following table sets forth information with respect to purchases of common stock of the Company made by WVS Financial Corp.
during the three months ended December 31, 2019.   
  


(1)
 All shares indicated were purchased under the Company’s reopened Eleventh Stock Repurchase Program.



(2)
 Eleventh Stock Repurchase Program 


 
(a)
 Announced October 27, 2015. 


 
(b)
 100,800 common shares approved for repurchase. 


 
(c)
 No fixed date of expiration. 


 
(d)
 This program has not expired and has 20,256 of shares remaining to be purchased at December 31, 2019.



 
(e)
 Not applicable. 
  52 


Table of Contents
ITEM 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities 
Not applicable.  ITEM
4. Mine Safety Disclosures  Not applicable. 
ITEM 5. Other Information 
(a) Not applicable. 
(b) Not applicable. 
ITEM 6. Exhibits 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Form 10-Q, and this list includes the Exhibit
Index.   

  53 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.     
 













 

 
         WVS FINANCIAL CORP.
 









 
February 13, 2020
 
BY:
 
   /s/ David J. Bursic
 
          

 
 
Date
 

 
   David J. Bursic   President and Chief
Executive Officer   (Principal Executive Officer)
 









 
February 13, 2020
 
BY:
 
   /s/ Linda K. Butia
 



 
Date
 

 
   Linda K. Butia   Vice-President, Treasurer
and Chief Accounting Officer   (Principal Accounting Officer)
 

  
  54 


