









iivi-10q_20191231.htm




 
\
UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549  
 
FORM 10-Q 
 




☒

Quarterly Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 


For the quarterly period ended December 31, 2019 




☐

Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 


for the transition period from                      to                     . 
Commission File Number: 0-16195 
 
II-VI INCORPORATED 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
 
 




PENNSYLVANIA

 

25-1214948



(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)

 

(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)



 

 

 



375 Saxonburg Boulevard

 

 



Saxonburg, PA

 

16056



(Address of principal executive offices)

 

(Zip Code)


Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: 724-352-4455 
N/A 
 (Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report) 
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:




Title of each class

Trading Symbol(s)

Name of each exchange on which registered



Common Stock, no par value

IIVI

Nasdaq Global Select Market


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  ☒    No  ☐ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).    Yes  ☒    No  ☐ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.: 










Large accelerated filer

☒

Accelerated filer

☐



Non-accelerated filer

☐  

Smaller reporting company

☐



 

 

Emerging growth company

☐


If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act    ☐   
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes  ☐    No  ☒ 
Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer’s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date: 
At February 6, 2020, 91,059,636 shares of Common Stock, no par value, of the registrant were outstanding. 
 
 
 

 
II-VI INCORPORATED 
INDEX 
 


 
 
 
2

 
PART I - FINANCIAL INFORMATION




Item 1.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
II-VI Incorporated and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
($000)
 


 
 
 
3

 
 II-VI Incorporated and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) (Unaudited)
($000 except per share data)
 


 
 
 
- See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
4

 


 
5

 
II-VI Incorporated and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) (Unaudited) 
($000)
 


 
- See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 
6

 
II-VI Incorporated and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
($000)
 


- See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 
7

 
e II-VI Incorporated and Subsidiaries 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity (Unaudited) 
(000) 
 


 


 


 


 
- See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
8

 
II-VI Incorporated and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 
 




Note 1.

Basis of Presentation 
The condensed consolidated financial statements of II-VI Incorporated (“II-VI”, the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our”) for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are unaudited. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation for the periods presented have been included. All adjustments are of a normal recurring nature unless disclosed otherwise. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K dated August 16, 2019. The consolidated results of operations for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year. The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet information as of June 30, 2019 was derived from the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements.
Effective July 1, 2019, the Company has realigned its organizational structure into two reporting segments for the purpose of making operational decisions and assessing financial performance: (i) Compound Semiconductors and (ii) Photonic Solutions. 
On September 24, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Finisar Corporation (“Finisar”). The Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements include the operating results of Finisar from the date of acquisition. Refer to Note 3 for further discussion of the acquisition. 
 




Note 2.

Recently Issued Financial Accounting Standards 
Leases
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). This ASU modifies lease accounting for lessees to increase transparency and comparability by recording lease assets and liabilities for operating leases and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The Company adopted this standard on July 1, 2019.  The Company has elected to utilize the optional transition method.  See Note 5.
Derivatives and Hedging
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities (“ASU 2017-12”), which more closely aligns an entity’s risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results.  The Company adopted this standard on July 1, 2019.  The adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
 
Pronouncements Currently Under Evaluation 
 
In July 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (“ASU 2016-13”), which among other things, requires the measurement of all expected credit losses of financial assets held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. Financial institutions and other organizations will now use forward looking information to better inform their credit loss estimates. In addition, the ASU amends the accounting for credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities and purchased financial assets with credit deterioration. ASU 2016-13 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact of the pronouncement.
 
In October 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-16, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Inclusion of the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) Overnight Index Swap (OIS) Rate as a Benchmark Interest Rate for Hedge Accounting Purposes (“ASU 2018-16”), which permits the use of the OIS rate based on SOFR as a U.S. benchmark interest rate eligible for hedge accounting purposes.  For public business entities that already have adopted the amendments in ASU 2017-12, the amendments in ASU 2018-16 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years.  Early adoption is permitted in any interim period upon issuance of this update if an entity already has adopted ASU 2017-12.  The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact of the pronouncement.
 
9

 
 
 




Note 3.

Finisar Acquisition 
 
On September 24, 2019 (the “Closing Date”), the Company completed its acquisition of Finisar, a global technology leader for subsystems and components for fiber optic communications. 
 
Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 8, 2018 (the “Merger Agreement”), Mutation Merger Sub Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”), merged with and into Finisar (the “Merger”), with Finisar surviving the Merger. Each issued and outstanding share of Finisar’s common stock was automatically cancelled and converted into the right to receive the following consideration (collectively the “Merger Consideration”), at the election of the holder of the share of Finisar’s common stock:
 




 

•

$26.00 in cash, without interest (the “Cash Consideration”), 




 

•

0.5546 of a share of the Company’s common stock (the “Stock Consideration”), or 




 

•

a combination of $15.60 in cash, without interest, and 0.2218 of a share of the Company’s common stock (the “Mixed Consideration”).
The per share Cash Consideration and Stock Consideration were subject to adjustment pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement such that the aggregate Merger Consideration consisted of approximately 60.0% cash and approximately 40.0% shares of the Company’s common stock (assuming a per share price of the Company’s common stock equal to the closing price as of November 8, 2018, which was $46.88 per share) across all shares of Finisar’s common stock (the “Proration Adjustment”).  Following the Proration Adjustment, the resulting consideration for Cash Consideration was adjusted to $15.94 in cash and 0.2146 shares of the Company’s Common Stock. No adjustment was made to the Stock Consideration and Mixed Consideration. 
 
The preliminary total fair value of consideration paid in connection with the acquisition of Finisar consisted of the following (in $000): 
 


The Company recorded $8.0 million and $40.2 million of acquisition related costs in the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, respectively, representing professional and other direct acquisition costs. These costs are recorded within selling, general, and administrative expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings (Loss). 
 
On the Closing Date, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of September 24, 2019 (the “New Credit Agreement”), by and among the Company, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, and the other lender parties thereto. Refer to Note 10 for additional information on the new credit facility.  
 
From the Closing Date, Finisar contributed $306.6 million and $328.7 million of our consolidated revenue for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, respectively. Including severance related costs, Finisar’s contribution to our net loss was a loss of $7.3 million and $22.7 million during the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, respectively. 
 
The Company allocated the fair value of the purchase price consideration to the tangible assets, liabilities, and intangible assets acquired, generally based on estimated fair values. The excess purchase price over those fair values is recorded as goodwill. Our valuation assumptions of acquired assets and assumed liabilities require significant estimates, especially with respect to intangible assets. Our preliminary allocation of the purchase price of Finisar, based on the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the Closing Date, is as follows (in $000):
 
10

 


 
 
The purchase price allocation set forth herein is preliminary and will be revised as additional information becomes available during the measurement period, which could be up to 12 months from the Closing Date. Any such revisions or changes may be material. The Company utilized market available benchmarking analysis to perform the preliminary allocation above.
 
As of December 31, 2019, the goodwill and intangibles have been allocated to the Photonic Solutions and Compound Semiconductors segments. The preliminary goodwill of $774.1 million arising from the acquisition is attributed to the expected synergies, including future cost savings, and other benefits expected to be generated by combining II-VI and Finisar. Substantially all of the goodwill recognized is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. See Note 9 for additional information on goodwill and intangibles. 
 
Supplemental Pro Forma Information
 
The supplemental pro forma financial information presented below is for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the financial position or results of operations that would have been realized if the acquisition had been completed on the date indicated, does not reflect synergies that might have been achieved, nor is it indicative of future operating results or financial position.  The pro forma adjustments are based upon currently available information and certain assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances.
 
The following supplemental pro forma information presents the combined results of operations for the three and six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2019, as if Finisar had been acquired as of July 1, 2018.  The supplemental pro forma information includes adjustments to amortization and depreciation for acquired intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, adjustments to share-based compensation expense, fair value adjustments on the inventories acquired, transaction costs, and interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs related to the New Senior Credit Facilities as defined in Note 10.
 
The unaudited supplemental pro forma financial information for the period presented is as follows (in $000):
 


 
11

 




Note 4.

Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
The following tables summarize disaggregated revenue by revenue market, and product for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 ($000):


 


 


 
12

 


 
Contract Liabilities
 
Payments received from customers are based on invoices or billing schedules as established in contracts with customers. Contract liabilities relate to billings in advance of performance under the contract. Contract liabilities are recognized as revenue when the performance obligation has been performed. During the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, the Company recognized revenue of $21.2 million and $50.2 million, respectively, related to customer payments that were included as contract liabilities in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of July 1, 2019. The Company had $37.7 million and $19.4 million of contract liabilities recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019, respectively.
 




Note 5.

Leases 
 
On July 1, 2019, the Company adopted Topic 842, Leases, using the modified retrospective transition approach. The reported results for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 reflect the application of Topic 842, while prior period amounts have not been adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under Topic 840.
The Company elected the practical expedient package permitted under the transition approach. As such, the Company did not reassess whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, did not reassess historical lease classification, and did not reassess initial direct costs for any leases that existed prior to July 1, 2019. 
As of the date of adoption, the Company recognized operating lease assets and liabilities of approximately $80.1 million on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. In addition, we acquired approximately $45 million and $48 million of operating lease assets and liabilities, respectively, through the acquisition of Finisar, which remains preliminary as discussed in Note 3.
 
All existing leases that were classified as capital leases under Topic 840 are classified as finance leases under Topic 842. As of the date of adoption, the Company recognized finance lease assets of $25 million in property, plant and equipment, net, with corresponding finance lease liabilities of $24 million on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception and classify it as either finance or operating.
 
Finance leases are generally those that allow us to substantially utilize or pay for the entire asset over its estimated useful life. Finance leases are recorded in property, plant and equipment, net, and finance lease liabilities within other current and other non-current liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Finance lease assets are amortized in operating expenses on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets or the lease term, with the interest component for lease liabilities included in interest expense and recognized using the effective interest method over the lease term.
 
Operating leases are recorded in other assets and operating lease liabilities, current and non-current on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Operating lease assets are amortized on a straight-line basis in operating expenses over the lease term.
 
The Company’s lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the remaining fixed lease payments, over the lease term, using a discount rate of similarly secured borrowings available to the Company. For the purpose of lease liability measurement, we consider only payments that are fixed and determinable at the time of commencement. Any variable payments that depend on an index or rate are expensed as incurred. We account for non-lease components, such as common area maintenance, as a component of the lease, and include it in the initial measurement of our lease assets and corresponding liabilities. The Company’s lease terms and 
13

 
conditions may include options to extend or terminate. An option is recognized when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. 
 
The Company’s lease assets also include any lease payments made and exclude any lease incentives received prior to commencement. Our lease assets are tested for impairment in the same manner as long-lived assets used in operations. 
 
The following table presents lease costs, which include short-term leases, lease term, and discount rates ($000):


 
 
 
The following table presents future minimum lease payments, which include short-term leases ($000):
 


 
 
14

 




Note 6.

Other Investments 
The Company holds a 93.8% equity investment in a privately-held company (“Equity Investment”), which it acquired for $51.7 million. The Company’s pro-rata share of earnings/(loss) from this investment for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 was insignificant. The Company’s pro rata share of earnings from this investment for the three and six months ended December 31, 2018 was $0.9 million and $2.0 million, and was recorded in other expense (income), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings (Loss).  
This investment is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The following table summarizes the Company's equity in this nonconsolidated investment:
 


 
The Equity Investment has been determined to be a variable interest entity because the Company has an overall 93.8% economic position in the investee, comprising a significant portion of its capitalization, but has only a 25% voting interest. The Company’s right to receive rewards and obligation to absorb expected losses is disproportionate to its voting interest. The Company is not the primary beneficiary because it does not have the power to direct the activities of the equity investment that most significantly impacts its economic performance. Certain business decisions, including decisions with respect to operating budgets, material capital expenditures, indebtedness, significant acquisitions or dispositions, and strategic decisions, require the approval of owners holding a majority percentage in the Equity Investment.  The Company accounts for its interest as an equity method investment as the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies of the Equity Investment.
As of December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019, the Company’s maximum financial statement exposure related to this Equity Investment was approximately $57.7 million and $57.6 million, respectively, which is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company has the right to purchase all of the outstanding interest of each of the minority equity holders, and the minority equity holders have the right to cause the Company to purchase all of their outstanding interests, at any time on or after the third anniversary of the investment, or earlier upon certain events.  
 




Note 7.

Inventories
The components of inventories were as follows ($000): 
 


 




Note 8.

Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment consists of the following ($000): 
 


 
 
15

 
Included in the table above is a building acquired under a finance lease. As of December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019, the accumulated depreciation of the finance lease right-of-use asset was $5.0 million and $4.2 million, respectively. 
 
 




Note 9.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
Effective July 1, 2019, the Company realigned its organizational structure into two reporting segments for the purpose of making operational decisions and assessing financial performance: (i) Compound Semiconductors and (ii) Photonic Solutions. All applicable information has been restated to reflect this change. 
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill were as follows ($000): 


 
The gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of the Company’s intangible assets other than goodwill as of December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019 were as follows ($000): 
 


 
Other intangible assets primarily include $828.6 million related to the preliminary purchase price allocation of Finisar. This includes preliminary amounts for technology of $615.8 million, customer lists of $125.4 million, in process research and development of $76.0 million, and trade names of $11.4 million. These items will be included in other intangible assets until the purchase price allocation is finalized.
 
As a result of the July 1, 2019 segment realignment, the Company reviewed the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill at its reporting units. The Company performed a quantitative test to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company did not record any impairment of goodwill or long-lived assets, as the quantitative assessment did not indicate deterioration in the fair value of its reporting units. 
 
16

 




Note 10.

Debt 
The components of debt for the periods indicated were as follows ($000):


 
New Senior Credit Facilities
On September 24, 2019, in connection with the Finisar acquisition, the Company entered the New Senior Credit Facilities with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, and the other lenders party thereto. 
The New Credit Agreement provides for senior secured financing of $2.425 billion in the aggregate, consisting of 




 

(i)

Aggregate principal amount of $1.255 billion for a five-year senior secured first-lien term A loan facility (the “Term A Facility”), 




 

(ii)

Aggregate principal amount of $720 million for a seven-year senior secured term B loan facility (the “Term B Facility” and together with the Term A Facility, the “Term Loan Facilities”) and 




 

(iii)

Aggregate principal amount of $450 million for a five-year senior secured first-lien revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility” and together with the Term Loan Facilities, the “New Senior Credit Facilities”). 
The New Credit Agreement also provides for a letter of credit sub-facility not to exceed $25.0 million and a swing loan sub-facility initially not to exceed $20.0 million.
The Company is obligated to repay the outstanding principal amount of the Term A Facility in quarterly installments equal to 1.25% of the initial aggregate principal amount of the Term A Facility, with the remaining outstanding balance due and payable on the fifth anniversary of the Closing Date. Similarly, the Company is obligated to repay the outstanding principal amount of the Term B Facility in quarterly installments equal to 0.25% of the initial aggregate principal amount of the Term B Facility, with the remaining outstanding balance due and payable on the seventh anniversary of the Closing Date. The Company is obligated to repay the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding revolving loans made under the Revolving Credit Facility on the fifth anniversary of the Closing Date.
The Company’s obligations under the New Senior Credit Facilities are guaranteed by each of the Company’s existing or future direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries, including Finisar and its domestic subsidiaries (collectively, the “Guarantors”). Borrowings under the New Senior Credit Facilities are collateralized by a first priority lien in substantially all of the assets of the Company and the Guarantors, except that no real property is collateral under the New Senior Credit Facilities.
All amounts outstanding under the New Senior Credit Facilities will become due and payable 120 days prior to the maturity of the Company’s currently outstanding 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022 (the “II-VI Notes”) if (i) the II-VI Notes remain outstanding, and (ii) the Company has insufficient cash and borrowing availability to repay the principal amount of the II-VI Notes. 
17

 
The Company voluntarily may prepay, at any time or from time to time, any amounts outstanding under the New Senior Credit Facilities in whole or in part without premium or penalty; except for the Term B Facility, pursuant to which in the event of (a) a repayment made before September 24, 2020, (b) the occurrence of a repricing event, or (c) a change to the lenders, the Company will be subject to a prepayment premium in an amount equal to one percent of: (i) the principal amount of the Term B Facility that is prepaid under an optional or mandatory prepayment due to a repricing event, (ii) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Term B Facility resulting from an amendment to the New Credit Agreement, and (iii) the principal amount of the Term B Facility that is mandatorily assigned. The Company may be subject to mandatory prepayment of amounts outstanding under the New Senior Credit Facilities under certain circumstances, including in connection with certain asset sales or other dispositions of property and debt issuances. 
The Company also may be required to prepay amounts under the Term B Facility based on the Company’s excess cash flow (as calculated in accordance with the terms of the New Credit Agreement) for the Company’s prior fiscal year beginning with its fiscal year ending June 30, 2020 and the Company’s consolidated secured net leverage ratio (as calculated in accordance with the terms of the New Credit Agreement) as of the end of such fiscal year.
Amounts outstanding under the New Senior Credit Facilities will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to an applicable margin over a eurocurrency rate or an applicable margin over a base rate determined by reference to the highest of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (b) Bank of America, N.A.’s prime rate and (c) a eurocurrency rate plus 1.00%, in each case as calculated in accordance with the terms of the New Credit Agreement. The applicable interest rate would increase under certain circumstances relating to events of default.  The Company has entered into an interest rate swap contract to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk on its variable rate borrowings under the New Senior Credit Facilities.  Refer to Note 15 for further information regarding this interest rate swap.
The New Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants with respect to the New Senior Credit Facilities, including limitations with respect to liens, investments, indebtedness, dividends, mergers and acquisitions, dispositions of assets and transactions with affiliates. The Company will be obligated to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio (as calculated in accordance with the terms of the new Credit Agreement) as of the end of each fiscal quarter of not less than 3.00:1.00. The Company will be obligated to maintain a consolidated total net leverage ratio (as calculated in accordance with the terms of the New Credit Agreement) of not greater than (i) 5.00 to 1.00 for the first four fiscal quarters after the Closing Date, commencing with the first full fiscal quarter after the Closing Date, (ii) 4.50 to 1.00 for the fifth fiscal quarter through and including the eighth fiscal quarter after the Closing Date, and (iii) 4.00 to 1.00 for each subsequent fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the New Credit Agreement.
The Company incurred $69.8 million of debt issuance costs in connection with the New Senior Credit Facilities. The Company evaluated these costs to determine appropriate recognition of expense under ASC 470, to account for debt modification and extinguishment. As a result of the Company’s assessment, $65.8 million have been capitalized in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Debt extinguishment costs of $4.0 million were expensed in other expense (income), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings (Loss) during the six months ended December 31, 2019.  The Company expensed $2.9 million of capitalized debt issuance costs during the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 in interest expense in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings (Loss). The capitalized costs are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest rate method from the issuance date of September 24, 2019, through the end of each facility.   The unamortized discount amounted to $62.8 million as of December 31, 2019 and is being amortized over five and seven years, for the Term A Facility and Revolving Credit Facility, and the Term B Facility, respectively.
0.50% Finisar Convertible Notes
Finisar’s outstanding 0.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2036 (the “Finisar Notes”) may be redeemed at any time on or after December 22, 2021 in whole or in part at the option of the Company at a redemption price equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the principal amount of such Finisar Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. Each holder of Finisar Notes also may require Finisar to repurchase all or any portion of such holder’s outstanding Finisar Notes for cash on December 15, 2021, December 15, 2026 and December 15, 2031 at a repurchase price equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the principal amount of such Finisar Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Finisar Notes will mature on December 15, 2036. Interest on the Finisar Notes accrues at 0.50% per annum, paid semi-annually, in arrears, on June 15 and December 15 of each year.
In connection with the acquisition of Finisar, the Company, Finisar and the trustee entered into a First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 24, 2019 (the “First Supplemental Indenture”). The First Supplemental Indenture supplements the base indenture (as supplemented, the “Finisar Indenture”), which governs the Finisar Notes. Pursuant to the terms of the First Supplemental Indenture, the Company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, the due and punctual payment and performance of all obligations of Finisar to the holders of the Finisar Notes. The First Supplemental Indenture also provides that the right of holders of 
18

 
Finisar Notes to convert Finisar Notes into cash and/or shares of Finisar’s common stock, is changed to a right to convert Finisar Notes into cash and/or shares of the Company’s common stock, subject to the terms of the Finisar Indenture.
Under the terms of the Finisar Indenture, the consummation and effectiveness of the Merger on the Closing Date constituted a Fundamental Change (as defined in the Finisar Indenture) and a Make-Whole Fundamental Change (as defined in the Finisar Indenture). Accordingly, in accordance with the terms of the Finisar Indenture, each holder of Finisar Notes had the right to (i) convert its Finisar Notes into cash and/or shares of Company Common Stock, at Finisar’s option, or (ii) require that Finisar repurchase such holder’s Finisar Notes for an amount in cash equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the principal amount of such Finisar Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. 
Holders of approximately $560.1 million in aggregate principal amount of Finisar Notes exercised the repurchase right. The Company repurchased those Finisar Notes on October 23, 2019 for an aggregate consideration of approximately $561.1 million in cash, including accrued interest. No holders of Finisar Notes exercised the related conversion right. The Company borrowed $561.0 million under a delayed draw on its Term Loan A to fund the payment to the holders of Finisar Notes that exercised the repurchase right. As of December 31, 2019, approximately $14.9 million in aggregate principal amount of Finisar Notes remain outstanding. 
 
0.25% Convertible Senior Notes
In August 2017, the Company issued and sold $345 million aggregate principal amount of the II-VI Notes in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
As a result of our cash conversion option, the Company separately accounted for the value of the embedded conversion option as a debt discount. The value of the embedded conversion option was determined based on the estimated fair value of the debt without the conversion feature, which was determined using an expected present value technique (income approach) to estimate the fair value of similar nonconvertible debt; the debt discount is being amortized as additional non-cash interest expense over the term of the II-VI Notes using the effective interest method.
The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification. The initial conversion rate is 21.25 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of II-VI Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of $47.06 per share of common stock. Throughout the term of the II-VI Notes, the conversion rate may be adjusted upon the occurrence of certain events. The if-converted value of the II-VI Notes amounted to $246.8 million as of December 31, 2019 and $268.0 million as of June 30, 2019 (based on the Company’s closing stock price on the last trading day of the fiscal periods then ended). As of December 31, 2019, the II-VI Notes are not yet convertible based upon the II-VI Notes’ conversion features.  Holders of the II-VI Notes will not receive any cash payment representing accrued and unpaid interest upon conversion of a II-VI Note. Accrued but unpaid interest will be deemed to be paid in full upon conversion rather than cancelled, extinguished or forfeited.
The following tables set forth total interest expense recognized related to the II-VI Notes for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:
 


 
The effective interest rate on the liability component for both periods presented was 4.5%. The unamortized discount amounted to $32.6 million as of December 31, 2019 and $38.3 million as of June 30, 2019 and is being amortized over three years. 
 
19

 
Aggregate Availability
The Company had aggregate availability of $356.0 million under its line of credit as of December 31, 2019. 
Weighted Average Interest Rate
The weighted average interest rate of total borrowings was 3.8% and 1.7% for the six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.       
 
 




Note 11.

Income Taxes 
The Company’s year-to-date effective income tax rate at December 31, 2019 was an income tax benefit of 10.0% compared to an income tax expense of 18.2% for the same period in fiscal 2018. The variations between the Company’s effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate of 21% were primarily due to the impact of the U.S. enacted tax legislation partially offset by research and development incentives in certain jurisdictions. 
U.S. GAAP prescribes the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements which includes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. As of December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019, the Company’s gross unrecognized income tax benefit, excluding interest and penalties, was $74.0 million and $11.5 million, respectively. In conjunction with the acquisition of Finisar, the Company assumed $64.0 million of uncertain tax positions. The Company has classified the uncertain tax positions as noncurrent income tax liabilities, as the amounts are not expected to be paid within one year. If recognized, $70.3 million of the gross unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2019 would impact the effective tax rate. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax provision in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss). The amount of accrued interest and penalties included in the gross unrecognized income tax benefit was $15.6 million and $1.2 million, at December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019, respectively. Fiscal years 2017 to 2020 remain open to examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, fiscal years 2015 to 2020 remain open to examination by certain state jurisdictions, and fiscal years 2009 to 2020 remain open to examination by certain foreign taxing jurisdictions.  The Company is currently under examination for certain subsidiary companies in Florida for the years 2016 through 2018; Philippines for the year 2017; Germany for the years 2012 through  2015; Vietnam for the years 2018 through 2019; Australia for the years 2011 through 2014; and India for the year 2016. The Company believes its income tax reserves for these tax matters are adequate.




Note 12.

Earnings Per Share 
The following table sets forth the computation of earnings per share for the periods indicated. Basic net income per share has been computed using the weighted average number of shares of Common Stock outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share has been computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period plus dilutive potential shares of Common Stock from (1) stock options, performance and restricted shares (under the treasury stock method) and (2) convertible debt (under the If Converted method) outstanding during the period. The Company’s convertible debt calculated under the if-converted method was anti-dilutive for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, and was excluded from the calculation of earnings per share (000 except per share data): 
 
 
20

 


 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents potential shares of Common Stock excluded from the calculation of diluted net income per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive (000):
 


 




Note 13.

Segment Reporting 
The Company reports its business segments using the “management approach” model for segment reporting. This means that the Company determines its reportable business segments based on the way the chief operating decision maker organizes business segments within the Company for making operating decisions and assessing financial performance. 
The Company reports its financial results in the following two segments: (i) Compound Semiconductors, and (ii) Photonic Solutions, and the Company’s chief operating decision maker receives and reviews financial information based on these segments.  The Company evaluates business segment performance based upon segment operating income, which is defined as earnings before income taxes, interest and other income or expense. The segments are managed separately due to the market, production requirements and facilities unique to each segment. 
On September 24, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of Finisar. See Note 3, Finisar Acquisition. Through September 30, 2019, the operating results of the Finisar acquisition are reflected in Unallocated and Other.  Finisar results have been included in the Photonic Solutions and Compound Semiconductors segments during the three months ended December 31, 2019.
The accounting policies are consistent across each segment. To the extent possible, the Company’s corporate expenses and assets are allocated to the segments. Unallocated and Other includes eliminating inter-segment sales and transfers, the results of Finisar since the acquisition date through September 30, 2019, and transaction costs related to the Finisar transaction. See Note 3 for additional information.
21

 
The following tables summarize selected financial information of the Company’s operations by segment ($000):
 


 
22

 
 
 




Note 14.

Share-Based Compensation 
The Company’s Board of Directors adopted the II-VI Incorporated 2018 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the “Plan”), which was approved by the Company’s shareholders. The Plan provides for the grant of performance-based cash incentive awards, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted share awards, restricted share units, deferred share awards, performance share awards and performance share units to employees, officers and directors of the Company. The maximum number of shares of the Company’s Common Stock authorized for issuance under the Plan is limited to 3,550,000 shares of Common Stock, not including any remaining shares forfeited under the predecessor plans that may be rolled into the Plan. The Company records share-based compensation expense for these awards in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires the recognition of grant-date fair value of share-based compensation in net earnings (loss) and over the requisite service period of the individual grantees, which generally equals the vesting period. The Company accounts for cash-based stock appreciation rights, cash-based restricted share unit awards and cash-based performance share unit awards as liability awards, in accordance with applicable accounting standards.   
Upon consummation of the acquisition, the Company assumed approximately 6.6 million restricted stock units previously granted by Finisar under the Amended and Restated Finisar Corporation 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (each an “Assumed RSU”). Each Assumed RSU is subject to substantially the same terms and conditions as applied to the Assumed RSU immediately prior to the consummation of the acquisition, except that the number of shares of the Company’s common stock subject to each Assumed RSU has been adjusted in accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement. Other than the Assumed RSUs, the Company did not assume any other awards outstanding under the Amended and Restated Finisar Corporation 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the “Finisar 2005 Plan”). As of the Closing Date, the Company also assumed the unused capacity under the Finisar 2005 Plan.
Share-based compensation expense for the periods indicated was as follows ($000): 


 




Note 15.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
The FASB defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous markets for the asset and liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The Company estimates fair value of its financial instruments utilizing an established three-level hierarchy in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The hierarchy is based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date as follows: 
 




 

•

Level 1 –Valuation is based upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.




 

•

Level 2 –Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, or other inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instruments.




 

•

Level 3 –Valuation is based upon other unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value measurements.
The classification of fair value measurements within the hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the measurement.  
The Company entered into an interest rate swap with notional amount of $1,075 million to limit the exposure to its variable interest rate debt by effectively converting it to a fixed interest rate. The Company receives payments based on the one-month LIBOR and makes payments based on a fixed rate of 1.52%. The Company receives payments with a floor of 0.00%. The interest rate swap agreement has an effective date of November 24, 2019, with an expiration date of September 24, 2024. The initial notional amount of the interest rate swap is scheduled to decrease to $825 million in July 2022 and will remain at that amount through the expiration date. The Company designated this instrument as a cash flow hedge and deemed the hedge relationship effective at inception of the contract. The interest rate swap is recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet within other assets at fair value. Changes in fair value are recorded within other comprehensive income (loss) on the consolidated balance sheet and reclassified into the Consolidated Statement of Earnings (Loss) as interest expense in the period in which the underlying transaction affects earnings.  The fair value of the interest rate swap is determined using widely accepted valuation techniques and reflects the contractual terms of the interest rate swap including the period to maturity, and while there are no quoted prices in active markets, it uses observable market-based inputs, 
23

 
including interest rate curves.  The fair value analysis also considers a credit valuation adjustment to reflect nonperformance risk.  The interest rate swap is classified as a Level 2 item within the fair value hierarchy.
The Company estimated the fair value of the II-VI Notes and Finisar Notes based on quoted market prices as of the last trading day prior to December 31, 2019; however, the II-VI Notes and Finisar Notes have only a limited trading volume and as such this fair value estimate is not necessarily the value at which the II-VI Notes and Finisar Notes could be retired or transferred. The Company concluded that this fair value measurement should be categorized within Level 2. The carrying value of the II-VI Notes and Finisar Notes is net of unamortized discount and issuance costs. See Note 10. Debt for details on the Company’s debt facilities. The fair value and carrying value of the II-VI Notes and Finisar Notes were as follows at December 31, 2019 ($000): 
 




 

 

Fair Value

 

 

Carrying Value

 



II-VI Notes

 

$

353,266

 

 

$

307,687

 



Finisar Notes

 

 

13,771

 

 

 

14,888

 


 
 
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents are considered Level 1 among the fair value hierarchy and approximate fair value because of the short-term maturity of those instruments. The Company’s borrowings including its lease obligations, excluding the 0.25% Convertible Notes and the 0.50% Finisar convertible notes are considered Level 2 among the fair value hierarchy and their principal amounts approximate fair value. 
 




Note 16.

Share Repurchase Programs 
In August 2014, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the Company to purchase up to $50 million of its Common Stock through a share repurchase program (the “Program”) that calls for shares to be purchased in the open market or in private transactions from time to time. The Program has no expiration and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Shares purchased by the Company are retained as treasury stock and available for general corporate purposes.  During the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, the Company purchased 50,000 shares of its common stock for $1.6 million under this program.  Through December 31, 2019, the Company has cumulatively purchased 1,416,587 shares of its Common Stock pursuant to the Program for approximately $22.3 million.
 




Note 17.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
The changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) by component, net of tax, for the six months ended December 31, 2019 were as follows ($000):
 


 
24

 




Item 2.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
Forward-Looking Statements 
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis”), contains forward-looking statements as defined by Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding projected growth rates, markets, product development, financial position, capital expenditures and foreign currency exposure. Forward-looking statements are also identified by words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects” or similar expressions. 
Although our management considers these expectations and assumptions to have a reasonable basis, there can be no assurance that management’s expectations, beliefs or projections as expressed in the forward-looking statements will actually occur or prove to be correct. In addition to general industry and global economic conditions, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to: (i) the failure of any one or more of the assumptions stated above to prove to be correct; (ii) the risks relating to forward-looking statements and other “Risk Factors” discussed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019; (iii) the purchasing patterns of customers and end-users; (iv) the timely release of new products, and acceptance of such new products by the market; (v) the introduction of new products by competitors and other competitive responses; (vi) the Company’s ability to assimilate recently acquired businesses, and risks, costs and uncertainties associated with such acquisitions; and/or (vii) the Company’s ability to devise and execute strategies to respond to market conditions. The Company disclaims any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, or otherwise.
In addition, we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment; new risk factors can arise, and it is not possible for management to anticipate all such risk factors, nor to assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any individual risk factor, or combination of risk factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are based only on information currently available to us and speak only as of the date of this Report. We do not assume any obligation, and do not intend to, update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by the securities laws. Investors should, however, consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature that the Company may make in its subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, or other disclosures filed with or furnished to the SEC.
Investors should also be aware that, while the Company does communicate with securities analysts from time to time, such communications are conducted in accordance with applicable securities laws. Investors should not assume that the Company agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. 
Introduction 
II-VI Incorporated (“II-VI,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”), a worldwide leader in engineered materials and opto-electronic components, is a vertically integrated manufacturing company that develops innovative products industrial materials processing, communications, aerospace-and-defense, consumer electronics, semiconductor capital equipment, life sciences and automotive end markets. The Company produces a wide variety of application-specific photonic and electronic materials and components, and deploys them in various forms, including integration with advanced software.
The Company generates revenues, earnings and cash flows from developing, manufacturing and marketing a broad portfolio of products for our end markets. We also generate revenue, earnings and cash flows from government-funded research and development contracts relating to the development and manufacture of new technologies, materials and products. 
Our customer base includes original equipment manufacturers, laser end users, system integrators of high-power lasers, manufacturers of equipment and devices for industrial, optical communications, consumer electronics, security and monitoring applications, U.S. government prime contractors, and various U.S. government agencies.
On September 24, 2019 (the “Closing Date”), the Company completed its acquisition of Finisar Corporation (“Finisar”), a global technology leader for subsystems and components for fiber optic communications. Additional information regarding the Company’s acquisition of Finisar is set forth below and in Note 3. Finisar Acquisition to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part 1, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  Due to timing of the acquisition, the results of Finisar for the three months ended September 30, 2019, have not been allocated to an Operating Segment, and are presented in the Unallocated and Other. Within this quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended December 31, 2019, the results of Finisar have been allocated to the Photonic Solutions and Compound Semiconductors Segments. 
25

 
Critical Accounting Estimates 
The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and the Company’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations require the Company’s management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K dated August 16, 2019 describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The Company adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), on July 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective method of adoption. There have been no other changes in significant accounting policies as of December 31, 2019. 
New Accounting Standards 
See Note 2. Recent Accounting Pronouncements to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. 
Results of Operations ($ in millions, except per share data) 
The following tables set forth select items from our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018: 
 


26

 
 
 
Executive Summary 
Net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was $(98.2) million ($(1.08) per share diluted), compared to net earnings of $28.7 million ($0.44 per share diluted) for the same period last fiscal year.  Net loss for the six months ended December 31, 2019 was ($124.2) million ($(1.58) per share diluted), compared to net earnings of $54.9 million or ($0.83 per share diluted).
Net loss was impacted by expenses of $119.9 million and $185.6 million incurred in relation to the September 24, 2019 acquisition of Finisar Corporation during the current three and six months ended December 31, 2019, respectively.  These expenses include transaction expenses such as legal and professional fees as well as expenses related to the fair value adjustments of acquired inventory and intangible assets. 
During the three months ended December 31, 2019, these expenses included $0.6 million of severance and related compensation expenses, $80.6 million of expenses associated with fair value adjustments of acquired inventory, $29.1 million of amortization expense associated with fair value adjustments of acquired intangible assets and $9.6 million of other transaction expenses.
During the six months ended December 31, 2019, these expenses included $25.3 million of investment banker fees, $18.9 million of severance and related compensation expenses, $87.7 million of expenses associated with fair value adjustments of acquired inventory, $31.3 million of amortization expense associated with fair value adjustments of acquired intangible assets, $5.6 million of expenses relating to incremental interest expenses and debt extinguishment and $16.8 million of other transaction expenses.
Consolidated 
Revenues. Revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2019 increased 94% to $666.3 million, compared to $342.9 million for the same period last fiscal year. Revenues for the six months ended December 31, 2019 increased 53% to $1,006.7 million, compared to $657.3 million for the same period last fiscal year. Finisar contributed $306.6 million and $328.7 million of revenues during the three and six months December 31, 2019.  In addition to the revenues contributed by Finisar, the increase in revenues was driven by increased demand from the Company’s ROADM product line for the optical communications market as well as increased revenues related to the Company’s VCSEL products used in the 3D Sensing market and increased demand from customers in the aerospace and defense markets.
Gross margin. Gross margin for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was $148.3 million, or 22.3% of total revenues, compared to $131.6 million, or 38.4% of total revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. Gross margin for the six months ended December 31, 2019 was $271.4 million, or 27.0% of total revenues, compared to $255.4 million, or 38.9% of total revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. Gross margin was negatively impacted by approximately $80.6 million and $87.7 million of additional cost of goods sold related to the preliminary fair value adjustment of the acquired Finisar inventory for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, respectively. Absent the above amount, gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased despite the revenue growth primarily as a result of product mix relating to the Transceiver product line which has a lower gross margin profile than the Company’s historical margins.
Internal research and development. Internal research and development (“IR&D”) expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2019 were $107.7 million, or 16.2% of revenues, compared to $33.8 million, or 9.9% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. IR&D expenses for the six months ended December 31, 2019 were $143.8 million, or 14.3% of revenues, compared to $66.9 million, or 10.2% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in IR&D expenses during the current three and six month period was primarily due to the acquisition of Finisar in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, as well as the Company’s continued investment in new products and technologies focused on 5G and other emerging market trends.  
Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2019 were $119.2 million, or 17.9% of revenues, compared to $58.1 million, or 16.9% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. SG&A expenses for the six months ended December 31, 2019 were $224.7 million, or 22.3% of revenues, compared to $111.7 million, or 17.0% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in SG&A for the current three and six months was primarily the result of transaction costs incurred relating to the acquisition of Finisar as well as the acquired SG&A from the Finisar acquisition.  During the six months ended December 31, 2019, the Company incurred $40.2 million of transaction related expenses.
Interest and other, net. Interest and other, net for the three months ended December 31, 2019 was expense of $28.9 million, compared to expense of $5.0 million for the same period last fiscal year.  Interest and other, net for the six months ended December 31, 2019 was expense of $40.9 million, compared to expense of $9.7 million for the same period last fiscal year.  Included in interest and other, net were interest expense on borrowings, equity earnings from its unconsolidated investments, foreign currency gains and losses, and interest income on excess cash balances.  Interest expense increased $22.8 million and $24.2 million for both the current 
27

 
three and six month periods, respectively, due to the higher levels of outstanding debt incurred in conjunction with the acquisition of Finisar.  In addition, the Company expensed $4.0 million of debt extinguishment costs in the six months ended December 31, 2019. 
Income taxes. The Company’s year-to-date effective income tax rate at December 31, 2019 was 10.0%, compared to an effective tax rate of 18.2% for the same period last fiscal year. The variations between the Company’s effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate of 21% were primarily due to the impact of the U.S. enacted tax legislation partially offset by research and development incentives in certain jurisdictions.
Segment Reporting 
Revenues and operating income for the Company’s reportable segments are discussed below. Operating income differs from net earnings (loss) in that operating income excludes certain operational expenses included in other expense (income) – net as reported. Management believes operating income to be a useful measure for investors, as it reflects the results of segment performance over which management has direct control and is used by management in its evaluation of segment performance. See Note 13. Segment Reporting, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information on the Company’s reportable segments and for the reconciliation of the Company’s operating income to net earnings (loss), which is incorporated herein by reference. 
Effective July 1, 2019, the Company realigned its composition of its operating segments. The Company realigned its operating segments into two segments, Photonic Solutions and Compound Semiconductors for the purpose of making operational decisions and assessing financial performance. All applicable segment information has been restated to reflect this change. 
Compound Semiconductors ($ in millions) 


 
Revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2019 for Compound Semiconductors increased 12% to $205.9 million, compared to revenues of $183.2 million for the same period last fiscal year. Revenues for the six months ended December 31, 2019 for Compound Semiconductors increased 6% to $382.9 million, compared to revenues of $362.5 million for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in revenues during the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 primarily related to increased VCSEL product shipments addressing the 3D sensing commercial market.  In addition, the segment also experienced increased revenues to customers in the aerospace and defense market. 
Operating loss for the three months ended December 31, 2019 decreased 137% to $(8.8) million, compared to operating income of $23.6 million for the same period last fiscal year. Operating income for the six months ended December 31, 2019 decreased 61% to $17.7 million, compared to $44.9 million for the same period last fiscal year. The decrease in operating income during the current three and six month periods compared to the same periods last fiscal year was driven by unabsorbed operating costs incurred at the segment’s Sherman, Texas wafer fabrication facility.  The Company anticipates this facility to begin shipping to customers in the second half of fiscal year 2020.  In addition, the segment incurred approximately $12.4 million and $14.4 million of acquisition related expenses associated with amortization of acquired intangible assets, expensing of the fair value inventory write-up and other related acquisition expenses during the current three and six month periods, respectively.
 
Photonic Solutions ($ in millions) 


28

 
 
Revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2019 for Photonic Solutions increased 188% to $460.4 million, compared to $159.7 million for the same period last fiscal year. Revenues for the six months ended December 31, 2019 for Photonic Solutions increased 104% to $601.8 million, compared to $294.8 million for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in revenues for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same periods last fiscal year was primarily due to the acquisition of Finisar and the strengthening of demand of our transceiver product line. The segment also has experienced increased demand from customers in the optical communication market for ROADM components.
Operating loss for the three months ended December 31, 2019 decreased 364% to a loss of $(60.9) million, compared to operating income of $23.1 million for the same period last fiscal year. Operating loss for the six months ended December 31, 2019 decreased 223% to a loss of $(47.9) million, compared to operating income of $39.0 million for the same period last fiscal year.  The decrease in operating income during the current three and six month periods compared to the same periods last fiscal year was driven by acquisition related expenses of $103.4 million and $105.5 million related to amortization expense on acquired intangible assets and the expensing of inventory fair market value step-up.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
Historically, our primary sources of cash have been from operations, long-term borrowing, and advance funding from customers. Other sources of cash include proceeds received from the exercises of stock options and sale of equity investments and businesses. Our historic uses of cash have been for capital expenditures, investment in research and development, business acquisitions, payments of principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations and payments in satisfaction of employees’ minimum tax obligations. Supplemental information pertaining to our sources and uses of cash for the periods indicated is presented as follows: 
 
Sources (uses) of Cash (millions):
 


 
Net cash provided by operating activities: 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $56.3 million during the current six month period compared to $88.2 million of cash provided by operating activities during the same period last fiscal year.   The lower levels of cash flow from operations during the current six months ended December 31, 2019 were the result of lower earnings generated during the current fiscal year related to acquisition related expenses incurred for the acquisition of Finisar.
Net cash used in investing activities: 
Net cash used in investing activities was $1,118.0 million for the six months ended December 31, 2019, compared to net cash used of $133.0 million for the same period last fiscal year. Net cash used in investing activities during the current period primarily included 
29

 
$1,036.6 million for cash paid for the acquisition of Finisar, and $80.3 million of cash paid for property, plant and equipment to increase capacity to meet the growing demand for the Company’s product portfolio.
Net cash provided by financing activities: 
Net cash provided by financing activities was $1,232.1 million for the six months ended December 31, 2019, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $31.3 million for the same period last fiscal year. Net cash provided by financing activities during the current fiscal year included net borrowings on long-term debt of $1,311.0 million primarily to fund the acquisition of Finisar, and $3.1 million of cash received from the exercise of stock options.  Net cash provided by financing activities was offset by $63.5 million of debt issuance costs associated with the increased borrowings, $15.0 million of cash payments in satisfaction of employees’ minimum tax obligations from the vesting of equity awards, a $1.6 million payment to repurchase common stock through its share repurchase program and a $1.0 million earn-out payment relating to a prior year acquisition. 
 
New Senior Credit Facilities
On September 24, 2019, in connection with the Finisar acquisition, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “New Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., and the other lenders. 
The New Credit Agreement provides for senior secured financing of $2.425 billion in the aggregate, consisting of 




 

(i)

Aggregate principal amount of $1.255 billion for a five-year senior secured first-lien term A loan facility (the “Term A Facility”), 




 

(ii)

Aggregate principal amount of $720 million for a seven-year senior secured term B loan facility (the “Term B Facility” and together with the Term A Facility, the “Term Loan Facilities”) and 




 

(iii)

Aggregate principal amount of $450 million for a five-year senior secured first-lien revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility” and together with the Term Loan Facilities, the “New Senior Credit Facilities”). 
The New Credit Agreement also provides for a letter of credit sub-facility not to exceed $25 million and a swing loan sub-facility initially not to exceed $20 million.
Additional information regarding the New Senior Credit Facilities is set forth in Note 10. Debt to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part 1, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Contractual Obligations 
The following table presents information about the Company’s contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2019:
 


 




(1)

Interest payments represent both variable and fixed rate interest obligations based on the interest rate in place at December 31, 2019 relating to the New Senior Credit Facilities and the Company’s currently outstanding 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022.  These interest payments do not reflect the impact of the interest rate swap that is used to convert variable interest payments to fixed interest payments.




(2)

Includes an obligation for the use of two parcels of land related to II-VI Performance Metals. The lease obligations extend through 2039 and 2061, respectively. 




(3)

A purchase obligation is defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the transaction. These amounts are primarily composed of open purchase order commitments to vendors for the purchase of supplies and materials.
30

 




(4)

Includes cash earn out opportunities based on certain acquisitions’ achieving agreed-upon financial, operational and technology targets, and the value of the net purchase option for the Company’s equity investment in a privately held company. 
 
 
The Company’s gross unrecognized income tax benefit at December 31, 2019 has been excluded from the table above because the Company is not currently able to reasonably estimate the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over time. 
 
 




Item 3.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
MARKET RISKS 
The Company is exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In the normal course of business, the Company uses a variety of techniques and derivative financial instruments as part of its overall risk management strategy, which is primarily focused on its exposure in relation to the Japanese Yen, Chinese Renminbi, Swiss Franc, Euro, and the Malaysian Ringgit. No significant changes have occurred in the techniques and instruments used other than those described below. 
Foreign Exchange Risks 
In the normal course of business, the Company enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with its financial institutions. The purpose of these contracts is to hedge ordinary business risks regarding foreign currencies on product sales. Foreign currency exchange contracts are used to limit transactional exposure to changes in currency rates. 
Japanese Yen
The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts that permit it to sell specified amounts of Japanese Yen expected to be received from its export sales for pre-established U.S. dollar amounts at specified dates. The forward contracts are denominated in the same foreign currencies in which export sales are denominated. These contracts provide the Company with an economic hedge in which settlement will occur in future periods, thereby limiting the Company’s exposure. These contracts had a total notional amount of $12.0 million and $17.0 million at December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019, respectively. 
A 10% change in the Yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate would have changed revenues in the range from a decrease of $3.9 million to an increase of $4.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and a decrease of $6.5 million to an increase of $8.0 million for the six months ended December 31, 2019.
Chinese Renminbi
The Company enters into month-to-month forward contracts at varying amounts maturing monthly to limit exposure to the Chinese Renminbi. The Company recorded a loss of $0.8 million and $2.5 million in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings (Loss) related to these contracts for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, respectively.
Swiss Franc
The Company enters into month-to-month forward contracts to limit exposure to the Swiss Franc.  The Company recorded a gain of $0.3 million and a loss of $1.2 million in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings (Loss) related to these contracts for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, respectively.
Interest Rate Risks 
As of December 31, 2019, the Company’s total borrowings include variable rate borrowings, exposing the Company to changes in interest rates.  On November 24, 2019, the Company entered into an interest rate swap contract to limit the exposure of its variable interest rate debt by effectively converting it to fixed interest rate debt.  If the Company had not effectively fixed its variable rate debt, a change in the interest rate of 100 basis points on these variable rate borrowings would have resulted in additional interest expense of $19.7 million and $22.1 million for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019. 
 
 
31

 




Item 4.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
The Company’s management evaluated, with the participation of the Company’s and Chief Executive Officer, and the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The Company’s disclosure controls were designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission. It should be noted that the design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. However, the controls have been designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving the controls’ stated goals. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
No changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) were implemented during the Company’s most recently completed fiscal quarter that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 
 
On September 24, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of Finisar. In conducting its assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2020, management intends to exclude Finisar from that assessment, as permitted under SEC rules. The Company is in the process of integrating the historical internal control over financial reporting of Finisar with the rest of the Company. Finisar’s operations are included in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period from September 24, 2019 to December 31, 2019 and represented 61.3% of the Company’s consolidated total assets as of December 31, 2019 and 46.0% and 32.7% of the Company’s consolidated total revenues for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019, respectively.
 
Other than the foregoing, no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) were implemented during the Company’s most recently completed fiscal quarter that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
 
 
 
32

 
Part II – Other Information 




Item 1.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
The Company and its subsidiaries are involved from time to time in various claims, lawsuits, and regulatory proceedings incidental to its business. The resolution of each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties, and it is possible that these matters may be resolved unfavorably to the Company. Management believes, after consulting with legal counsel, that the ultimate liabilities, if any, resulting from these legal and regulatory proceedings will not materially affect the Company’s financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.




Item 1A.

RISK FACTORS 
In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the factors discussed below, carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2019, any of which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. Those risk factors are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. 
We face risks related to worldwide health epidemics and other outbreaks.
As a company with international operations, we are exposed to the risk of business and economic disruption related to worldwide health epidemics and other outbreaks, such as the Coronavirus.  Government imposed travel restrictions and local statutory quarantines may result in direct operational and administrative disruptions to our foreign facilities and may also indirectly impact our domestic facilities.  Additionally, our suppliers and customers may be adversely affected by these disruptions, which in turn could negatively impact our sales and operating results.




Item 2.

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
In August 2014, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the Company to purchase up to $50 million of its Common Stock through a share repurchase program (the “Program”) that calls for shares to be purchased in the open market or in private transactions from time to time. The Program has no expiration and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.  Shares purchased by the Company are retained as treasury stock and available for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2019, the Company has cumulatively purchased 1,416,587 shares of its Common Stock pursuant to the Program for approximately $22.3 million. The dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the Program is approximately $27.7 million.
The following table sets forth repurchases of our Common Stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2019: 
 


 




(1)

Represents shares of Common Stock transferred to the Company from employees in satisfaction of minimum tax withholding obligations associated with the vesting of restricted stock awards.
 
33

 




Item 6.

EXHIBITS 
 


 
 
 
34

 
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
 




 

 

II-VI INCORPORATED



 

 

(Registrant)



 

 

 

 



Date: February 10, 2020

 

By:

/s/    Vincent D. Mattera, Jr.



 

 

 

Vincent D. Mattera, Jr



 

 

 

Chief Executive Officer



 

 

 

 



Date: February 10, 2020

 

By:

/s/    Mary Jane Raymond 



 

 

 

Mary Jane Raymond



 

 

 

Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


 
 
35

