
10-Q
1
tm205409-1_10q.htm
FORM 10-Q


 
 

 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON,
DC 20549
 
FORM 10-Q


x
Quarterly Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

For the quarterly period ended December 31, 2019
 


¨
Transition Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

For the transition period from________
to ________
 
Commission File Number: 0-19266
 
ALLIED HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter)
 


Delaware
 
25-1370721

(State or other jurisdiction of
 
(I.R.S. Employer

Incorporation or organization)
 
Identification No.)

 
1720
Sublette Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri 63110
(Address of principal executive offices,
including zip code)
 
(314) 771-2400
(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)
 
N/A
(Former name, former address and former
fiscal year, if changed since last report)
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding twelve months (or for such shorter periods that the registrant was required to file such reports,
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past ninety days.  Yes   x    No   ¨
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).  Yes   x   No   ¨
 
Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company
or an emerging growth company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller
reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 


Large accelerated filer ¨
Accelerated filer ¨

Non-accelerated filer x
Smaller reporting company x


Emerging
growth company ¨
 

 
If
an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for
complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨
 
Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Yes   ¨   No   x
Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 


Title of Each Class
 Trading Symbol
Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $.01
AHPI
The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC

 
The number of shares
of common stock outstanding at January 31, 2020 is 4,013,537 shares.
 

 
 


 
 

 
INDEX
 

 
SAFE
HARBOR" STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
Statements contained in this Report, which
are not historical facts or information, are "forward-looking statements." Words such as "believe," "expect,"
 "intend," "will," "should," and other expressions that indicate future events and trends identify
such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause the outcome
and future results of operations, and financial condition to be materially different than stated or anticipated based on the forward-looking
statements. Such risks and uncertainties include both general economic risks and uncertainties, risks and uncertainties affecting
the demand for and economic factors affecting the delivery of health care services, both in the United States and in our overseas
markets, impacts of the U.S. Affordable Care Act, our history of net losses and negative cash flows and other specific matters
which relate directly to the Company's operations and properties as discussed in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K
for the year ended June 30, 2019. The Company cautions that any forward-looking statements contained in this report reflect only
the belief of the Company or its management at the time the statement was made. Although the Company believes such forward-looking
statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, such assumptions may ultimately prove inaccurate or incomplete. The Company undertakes
no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement
was made.
 


2
 

 
PART
I.   FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 

Item 1.Financial Statements
 
ALLIED HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS, INC.
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 

 
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 


3
 

 
ALLIED HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS, INC.
BALANCE SHEET
ASSETS
 

 
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 
(CONTINUED)
 


4
 

 
ALLIED HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS, INC.
BALANCE SHEET
(CONTINUED)
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 

 
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 


5
 

 
ALLIED HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS, INC.
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDER’S
EQUITY
(UNAUDITED)
 

 

 

 

  
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 


6
 

 
ALLIED HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS, INC.
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(UNAUDITED)
 

 
See accompanying
Notes to Financial Statements.
 

7
 

 
ALLIED HEALTHCARE
PRODUCTS, INC.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(UNAUDITED)
 
1. Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The accompanying unaudited
financial statements of Allied Healthcare Products, Inc. (the “Company”) have been prepared in accordance with the
instructions for Form 10-Q and do not include all of the information and disclosures required by accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting
only of normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation, have been included. Operating results for any
quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results for any other quarter or for the full year. These statements should be read
in conjunction with the financial statements and notes to the financial statements thereto included in the Company’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2019.
 
Adoption of new lease standard
 
In February 2016, the
FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires lessees to recognize leases on-balance sheet and disclose key information
about leasing arrangements. The new standard establishes a right-of-use model (ROU) that requires a lessee to recognize a ROU asset
and lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with a term longer than 12 months. Leases will be classified as finance
or operating, with classification affecting the pattern and classification of expense recognition in the income statement.
 
The new standard was
effective for Allied on July 1, 2019. The Company adopted the new standard on its effective date and used the effective date as
our date of initial application. Consequently, financial information recorded and the disclosures required under the new standard
are not provided for dates and periods before July 1, 2019. Additionally, the Company determined that as of the effective date
of the standard, it had no material impact on the financial statements or disclosures of the Company.
 
The new standard provides
a number of optional practical expedients in transition. We elected the package of practical expedients which does not require
us to reassess under the new standard our prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct
costs. Leasing activities are not significant to Allied’s business and there is no significant change in the Company’s
leasing activities upon adoption. The new standard also provides practical expedients for an entity’s ongoing accounting.
The Company elected the short-term lease recognition exemption for all leases with terms of less than 12 months.
 


8
 

 
Environmental Remediation
 
The Company is subject to federal and state
requirements for protection of the environment, including the remediation of contaminated sites. The Company’s policy is
to accrue and charge to current expense identified exposures related to environmental remediation sites when it is probable that
a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The amount of the liability is based on the best estimate
or the low end of a range of reasonably possible exposure for investigation, cleanup, and monitoring costs to be incurred. Estimated
remediation costs are not discounted to present value.
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
The Company’s
financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and the revolving credit facility.
The carrying amounts for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate their fair value due to
the short maturity of these instruments. The carrying amount of the revolving credit facility approximates fair value due to the
debt having a variable interest rate.
 

Going Concern, Liquidity and Management’s Plan
 
The Company believes
the combination of cash on hand at December 31, 2019, additional borrowings on the credit facility (Note 6) and reductions in inventory
levels and future operating expenses will be sufficient to meet its obligations as they become due in the ordinary course of business
for at least 12 months following the date these financial statements are issued. To the extent these measures do not provide sufficient
liquidity, the Company will consider additional borrowings through the sale leaseback of its corporate headquarters and delaying
certain expenditures until sufficient capital becomes available. Historically, the Company has experienced, and continues to experience,
net losses and net losses from operations. Additionally, the Company expects to incur significant environmental costs that are
planned to be expended over the next year (Note 5). The Company’s liquidity needs will be largely determined by the success
of the Company executing management’s plan.

 
2. Revenues
 
The Company’s
revenues are derived primarily from the sales of respiratory products, medical gas equipment and emergency medical products. The
products are generally sold directly to distributors, customers affiliated with buying groups, individual customers and construction
contractors, throughout the world.
 
The Company recognizes
revenue from product sales upon the transfer of control, which is generally upon shipment or delivery, depending on the delivery
terms set forth in the customer contract. Payment terms between Allied and its customers vary by the type of customer, country
of sale, and the products offered. The term between invoicing and the payment due date is not significant.
 
Management exercises
judgment in estimating variable consideration. Provisions for early payment discounts, rebates and returns and other adjustments
are provided for in the period the related sales are recorded. Historical data is readily available and reliable, and is used for
estimating the amount of the reduction in gross sales.
 
The Company provides
rebates to wholesalers. Rebate amounts are based upon purchases using contractual amount for each product sold. Factors used in
the rebate calculations include the identification of which products have been sold subject to a rebate and the customer or price
terms that apply. Using known contractual allowances, the Company estimates the amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records
the liability as a reduction of gross sales when it records the sale of the product. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs
in the month following the sale.
 


9
 

 
The Company regularly
analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. Historically,
adjustments to prior years’ rebate accruals have not been material to net income.
 
Other allowances charged
against gross sales include cash discounts and returns, which are not significant. Cash discounts are known within 15 to 30 days
of sale, and therefore can be reliably estimated. Returns can be reliably estimated because the Company’s historical returns
are low, and because sales return terms and other sales terms have remained relatively unchanged for several periods. Product warranties
are also not significant.
 
The Company does not allocate transaction
price as the Company has only one performance obligation and its contracts do not span multiple periods.
 
The
Company operates in one segment consisting of the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of a variety of respiratory
products used in the health care industry to hospitals, hospital equipment dealers, hospital construction contractors, home health
care dealers and emergency medical product dealers. The Company’s product lines include respiratory care products, medical
gas equipment and emergency medical products. The Company does not have
any one single customer that represents more than 10 percent of total sales. Sales by region, and by product, are as follows:
 

 

 


10
 

 
3.
Inventories
 
Inventories are comprised as follows:

 
4. Earnings per share
 
Basic earnings per
share are based on the weighted average number of shares of all common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per
share are based on the sum of the weighted average number of shares of common stock and common stock equivalents outstanding during
the period. The number of basic and diluted shares outstanding for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were
4,013,537.
 
5. Commitments and Contingencies
 
Legal Claims
 
The Company is subject
to various investigations, claims and legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of its
business activities. The Company has recognized costs and associated liabilities only for those investigations, claims and legal
proceedings for which in its view it is probable that liabilities have been incurred and the related amounts are estimable.
 
On January 30, 2020,
the Company filed a Citizen Participation Plan with the New York Department of Environmental Conservation under its Brownfield
Cleanup Program. The plan was filed with respect to the Company’s property in Stuyvesant Falls, New York. The plan recognizes
that the soil and groundwater at the Stuyvesant Falls facility is impacted by chemical compounds exceeding regulatory standards.
The Company has applied to the Brownfield Cleanup Program. Pursuant to the plan, the Company will conduct,
at its expense, investigation and remediation at the site with oversight by the Department of Environmental Conservation.
 
The Company’s
best estimate of the expected cost to remediate the site is $0.9 million. This amount was recorded as an expense in the three months
ended December 31, 2019 and is reflected in other accrued liabilities and selling, general and administrative expenses in the Company’s
financial statements.
 


11
 

 
Employment Contract
 
The Company has entered
into an employment contract with its chief executive officer with annual renewals. The contract includes termination without cause
and change of control provisions, under which the chief executive officer is entitled to receive specified severance payments generally
equal to two times ending annual salary if the Company terminates his employment without cause or he voluntarily terminates his
employment with “good reason.” “Good Reason” generally includes changes in the scope of his duties or location
of employment but also includes (i) the Company’s written election not to renew the Employment Agreement and (ii) certain
voluntary resignations by the chief executive officer following a “Change of Control” as defined in the Agreement.
 
6. Financing
 
The Company is party
to a Loan and Security Agreement with North Mill Capital, LLC (“North Mill”), as successor in interest to Summit Financial
Resources, L.P., dated effective February 27, 2017, as amended April 16, 2018 and April 24, 2019 (as amended, the “Credit
Agreement”). Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the Company obtained a secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit
Facility”). The Company’s obligations under the Credit Facility are secured by all of the Company’s personal
property, both tangible and intangible, pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Availability of funds under the Credit Agreement is based on the Company’s accounts receivable but will not exceed $2,000,000. At
December 31, 2019 availability under the agreement was $0.4 million.
 
The Credit Facility
will be available, subject to its terms, on a revolving basis until it expires on February 27, 2021, at which time all amounts
outstanding under the Credit Facility will be due and payable. Advances will bear interest at a rate equal to 2.00% in excess of
the prime rate as reported in the Wall Street Journal. Interest is computed based on the actual number of days elapsed over a year
of 360 days. In addition to interest, the Credit facility requires that the Company pay the lender a monthly administration fee
in an amount equal to forty-seven hundredths percent (0.47%) of the average outstanding daily principal amount of loan advances
for the each calendar month, or portion thereof.
 
Regardless of the
amount borrowed under the Credit Facility, the Company will pay a minimum amount of .25% (25 basis points) per month on the maximum
availability ($5,000 per month). In the event the Company prepays or terminates the Credit Facility prior to February 27, 2021,
the Company will be obligated to pay an amount equal to the minimum monthly payment multiplied by the number of months remaining
between February 27, 2021 and the date of such prepayment or termination.
 
Under the Credit Agreement,
advances are generally subject to customary borrowing conditions and to North Mill’s sole discretion to fund the advances.
The Credit Agreement also contains covenants with which the Company must comply during the term of the Credit Facility. Among other
things, such covenants require the Company to maintain insurance on the collateral, operate in the ordinary course and not engage
in a change of control, dissolve or wind up the Company.
 


12
 

 
The Credit Agreement
also contains certain events of default including, without limitation: the failure to make payments when due; the material breach
of representations or warranties contained in the Credit Agreement or other loan documents; cross-default with other indebtedness
of the Company; the entry of judgments or fines that may have a material adverse effect on the Company; failure to comply with
the observance or performance of covenants contained in the Credit Agreement or other loan documents; insolvency of the Company,
appointment of a receiver, commencement of bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings; dissolution of the Company; the attachment
of any state or federal tax lien; attachment or levy upon or seizure of the Company’s property; or any change in the Company’s
condition that may have a material adverse effect. After an event of default, and upon the continuation thereof, the principal
amount of all loans made under the Credit Facility would bear interest at a rate per annum equal to 20.00% above the otherwise
applicable interest rate (provided, that the interest rate may not exceed the highest rate permissible under law), and would have
the option to accelerate maturity and payment of the Company’s obligations under the Credit Facility.
 
At December 31, 2019, the Company had $985,790
of indebtedness. The prime rate as reported in the Wall Street Journal was 4.75% on December 31, 2019.
 
The Company was in
compliance with all of the covenants associated with the Credit Facility at December 31, 2019.
 
7.
Income Taxes
 
The Company accounts
for income taxes under ASC Topic 740: “Income Taxes.” Under ASC 740, the deferred tax provision is determined using
the liability method, whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based upon temporary differences between the financial
statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using presently enacted tax rates. Valuation allowances are established
when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts expected to be realized.  In the three and six months ended December
31, 2019 the Company recorded the tax benefit of losses incurred in the amount of approximately $387,000 and $541,000, respectively. 
As the realization of the tax benefit of the net operating loss is not assured an additional valuation allowance of a like amount
was recorded.  For the three and six months ended December 31, 2018 the Company recorded the tax benefit of losses incurred
in the amount of approximately $201,000 and $506,000. As the realization of the tax benefit of the net operating loss is not assured
an additional valuation allowance of a like amount was recorded. The total valuation allowance recorded by the Company as of December
31, 2019 and 2018 was approximately $3,266,000 and $2,706,000, respectively. To the extent that the Company’s losses continue
in future quarters, the tax benefit of those losses will be subject to a valuation allowance.
 

13
 

 
Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations
 
Results of Operations
 
Three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to three
months ended December 31, 2018
 
Allied had net sales
of $7.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019, down $0.8 million from net sales of $8.1 million in the prior year
same quarter. Domestic sales were down 7.8% while international sales, which represented 25.4% of second quarter sales, were down
15.3% from the prior year same quarter.
 
Orders
for the Company’s products for the three months ended December 31, 2019 of $7.7 million were $0.2 million or 2.5% lower than
orders for the prior year same quarter of $7.9 million. Domestic orders are down 2.2% over the prior year same quarter while
international orders, which represented 27.5% of second quarter orders, were 4.4% lower than orders for the prior year same quarter.
International sales and orders are subject to fluctuation in international demand. International and construction sales and orders
are subject to fluctuation in demand. Internationally, these fluctuations are at times due to political and economic uncertainty.
 
Gross profit for the
three months ended December 31, 2019 was $1.3 million, or 17.8% of net sales, compared to $1.2 million, or 14.8% of net sales,
for the three months ended December 31, 2018. The $0.1 million increase in gross profit is attributable to a decrease in overhead
expenses by $0.4 million which consisted of a $0.2 million decrease in fringe benefits including medical benefit payments and a
$0.1 million decrease in depreciation.
 
Selling, general and
administrative expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2019 were $2.9 million compared to selling, general and administrative
expenses of $2.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018. The increase is primarily due to the $0.9 million provision
for environmental cleanup costs at the Company’s facility in Stuyvesant Falls, New York.
 
Loss
from operations was $1,512,455 for the three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to loss from operations of $761,786
for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
 
Allied
had a loss before benefit from income taxes in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 of $1,531,484 compared to loss before benefit
from income taxes in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 of $779,427.  The Company’s tax provision net of valuation allowance
reflects a tax benefit of $0 for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. In the quarter ended December 31, 2019 the
tax benefit of losses in the amount of approximately $387,000 was fully offset by a valuation allowance of equivalent amount.  
In the quarter ended December 31, 2018 the Company recorded the tax benefit of losses incurred in the amount of approximately $201,000
net of additions to the valuation allowance of like amount. To the extent that the Company’s losses continue in future quarters,
the tax benefit of those losses will be fully offset by a valuation allowance.

 

14
 



 
Net loss for the second
quarter of fiscal 2020 was $1,531,484 or $0.38 per basic and diluted share compared to net loss of $779,427 or $0.19 per basic
and diluted share for the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The weighted average number of common shares outstanding, used in the
calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the second quarters of fiscal 2020 and 2019 were 4,013,537.
 
Six months ended December 31, 2019 compared to six months
ended December 31, 2018
 
Allied had net sales
of $15.3 million for the six months ended December 31, 2019, down $0.1 million, or 0.6% from net sales of $15.4 million in the
prior year same period. Domestic sales were down 4.2% from the prior year same period while international sales were up 11.1% from
the prior year same period. International business represented 26.8% of sales for the first six months of fiscal 2020.
 
Orders
for the Company’s products for the six months ended December 31, 2019 of $15.4 million were $0.1 million or 0.7% higher than
orders for the prior year same period of $15.3 million. Domestic orders are up 0.4% from the prior year same period while
international orders, which represented 26.6% of orders for the first six months of fiscal 2020, were 0.5% lower than orders for
the prior year same period.
 
Gross profit for the
six months ended December 31, 2019 was $2.6 million, or 17.0% of net sales, compared to $2.1 million, or 13.6% of net sales, for
the six months ended December 31, 2018. The $0.5 million increase in gross profit is mainly attributable to a $0.6 million decrease
in fringe benefits including medical benefits. The Company is self-insured for medical benefits and there is variation in the amount
of claims over time.
 
Selling, general and
administrative expenses for the six months ended December 31, 2019 were $4.7 million compared to selling, general and administrative
expenses of $4.1 million for the six months ended December 31, 2018. The increase is primarily due to the $0.9 million provision
for environmental cleanup costs at the Company’s facility in Stuyvesant Falls, New York. This increase was partially offset
by a $0.3 million decrease in personnel cost consisting of salary and fringe benefits.
 
Loss
from operations was $2.1 million for the six months ended December 31, 2019 compared to loss from operations of $2.0 million
for the six months ended December 31, 2018.
 
Allied
had a loss before benefit from income taxes in the first six months of fiscal 2020 of $2.1 million compared to loss before
benefit from income taxes in the first six months of fiscal 2019 of $2.0 million.  The Company’s tax provision net of
valuation allowance reflects a tax benefit of $0 for the six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. In the six months ended December
31, 2019 the tax benefit of losses in the amount of approximately $541,000 was fully offset by a valuation allowance of equivalent
amount.   In the six months ended December 31, 2018 the Company recorded the tax benefit of losses incurred in the amount
of approximately $506,000 net of additions to the valuation allowance of like amount. To the extent that the Company’s losses
continue in future quarters, the tax benefit of those losses will be fully offset by a valuation allowance.
 


15 
 

 
Net
loss for the six months ended December 31, 2019 was $2.1 million or $0.53 per basic and diluted share compared to net loss of $2.0
million or $0.50 per basic and diluted share for the first six months of fiscal 2019. The weighted average number of common shares
outstanding, used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the first six months of fiscal 2020 and 2019
was 4,013,537.
 
Liquidity and Capital
Resources
 
The Company’s
primary sources of liquidity are its cash, cash equivalents, other items of working capital and available borrowing under the Credit
Facility discussed below.
 
The
Company’s working capital was $5.5 million at December 31, 2019 compared to $7.4 million at June 30, 2019. Accounts
Receivable decreased by $0.2 million, Accounts Payable increased by $0.4 million, Other Accrued Liabilities increased by $0.5
million and debt increased $1.0 million. During fiscal 2020, these decreases in working capital were partially offset by a
$0.2 million increase in Inventory and a $0.2 million increase in Cash and cash equivalents. Accounts Payable is subject to
normal fluctuations in purchasing levels and the timing of payments within the quarter and Other Accrued Liabilities
increased by a $0.9 million provision for environmental costs. Accounts Receivable was $2.9 million at December 31, 2019, a
decrease from $3.2 million at June 30, 2019. Accounts Receivable as measured in days sales outstanding (“DSO”)
was 39 DSO at December 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019. The Company does adjust product forecast, order quantities and safety
stock based on changes in demand patterns in order to manage inventory levels.
 
As of December 31,
2019, the Company was party to a Loan and Security Agreement with North Mill Capital, LLC (“North Mill”), as successor
in interest to Summit Financial Resources, L.P., dated effective February 27, 2017, as amended April 16, 2018 and April 24, 2019
(as amended, the “Credit Agreement”). Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the Company obtained a secured revolving credit
facility (the “Credit Facility”). The Company’s obligations under the Credit Facility are secured by all of the
Company’s personal property, both tangible and intangible, pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth
in the Credit Agreement. Availability of funds under the Credit Agreement is based on the Company’s accounts receivable but will not exceed $2,000,000.  At December 31, 2019 availability under the agreement was $0.4 million. The Company
expects that it will use the Credit Facility to finance the Company’s operations in the short term.
 
The Credit Facility
will be available, subject to its terms, on a revolving basis until it expires on February 27, 2021, at which time all amounts
outstanding under the Credit Facility will be due and payable. Advances will bear interest at a rate equal to 2.00% in excess of
the prime rate as reported in the Wall Street Journal. Interest is computed based on the actual number of days elapsed over a year
of 360 days. In addition to interest, the Credit facility requires that the Company pay the lender a monthly administration fee
in an amount equal to forty-seven hundredths percent (0.47%) of the average outstanding daily principal amount of loan advances
for the each calendar month, or portion thereof.
 


16 
 

 
Regardless of the
amount borrowed under the Credit Facility, the Company will pay a minimum amount of .25% (25 basis points) per month on the maximum
availability ($5,000 per month). In the event the Company prepays or terminates the Credit Facility prior to February 27, 2021,
the Company will be obligated to pay an amount equal to the minimum monthly payment multiplied by the number of months remaining
between February 27, 2021 and the date of such prepayment or termination.
 
Under the Credit Agreement,
advances are generally subject to customary borrowing conditions and to North Mill’s sole discretion to fund the advances.
The Credit Agreement also contains covenants with which the Company must comply during the term of the Credit Facility. Among other
things, such covenants require the Company to maintain insurance on the collateral, operate in the ordinary course and not engage
in a change of control, dissolve or wind up the Company.
 
The Credit Agreement
also contains certain events of default including, without limitation: the failure to make payments when due; the material breach
of representations or warranties contained in the Credit Agreement or other loan documents; cross-default with other indebtedness
of the Company; the entry of judgments or fines that may have a material adverse effect on the Company; failure to comply with
the observance or performance of covenants contained in the Credit Agreement or other loan documents; insolvency of the Company,
appointment of a receiver, commencement of bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings; dissolution of the Company; the attachment
of any state or federal tax lien; attachment or levy upon or seizure of the Company’s property; or any change in the Company’s
condition that may have a material adverse effect. After an event of default, and upon the continuation thereof, the principal
amount of all loans made under the Credit Facility would bear interest at a rate per annum equal to 20.00% above the otherwise
applicable interest rate (provided, that the interest rate may not exceed the highest rate permissible under law), and North Mill
would have the option to accelerate maturity and payment of the Company’s obligations under the Credit Facility.
 
At December 31, 2019,
the Company had $985,790 of indebtedness, including short-term debt, long term debt and an immaterial amount of capital leases.
The prime rate as reported in the Wall Street Journal was 4.75% on December 31, 2019.
 
Further reductions
in availability, either due to continued losses, or changes by North Mill to the Company’s borrowing base, could have a material
adverse impact on our liquidity and ability to meet our operating requirements. In such a case, the Company would need to access
additional sources of liquidity if it does not return to profitability. If the Company were unable to reach such an agreement with
North Mill to increase availability, the Company could also attempt to negotiate a larger credit facility with another lender,
but the Company would be obligated to pay the above described pre-payment penalty to North Mill. There is no assurance that the
Company could secure either increased availability from North Mill or a new credit facility from a new lender, in which case the
Company would have to use other assets to obtain liquidity, such as a sale-leaseback of some or all of its real estate. The Company
was in compliance with all of the covenants associated with the Credit Facility at December 31, 2019.
 


17 
 

 
Further losses or
negative cash flow, including as a result of expenses connected with the investigation and possible environmental remediation
of the Stuyvesant Falls facility, could result in the Company requiring additional capital or liquidity, which may not be
available or may only be available on economically adverse terms. Specifically, the Company believes it can reduce negative
cash flow through a combination of reductions in operating expenses and reductions in inventory. To the extent these measures
do not provide sufficient liquidity, the Company will consider additional borrowings through the sale leaseback of its
corporate headquarters and delaying certain expenditures until sufficient capital becomes available.
 
Litigation and Contingencies
 
The
Company becomes, from time to time, a party to personal injury litigation arising out of incidents involving the use of its products.
The Company believes that any potential judgments resulting from these claims over its self-insured retention will be covered by
the Company’s product liability insurance. See Part II, Item 1 – Legal Proceedings, below, for more information concerning
litigation.
 
Critical Accounting Policies
 
The impact and any
associated risks related to the Company’s critical accounting policies on business operations are discussed throughout “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” where such policies affect the Company’s
reported and expected financial results. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, see
the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2019.
 
Recently Issued Accounting Guidance
 
See Note 1 –
Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies for more information on recent accounting pronouncements and their impact,
if any, on the Company’s financial statements. Management believes there have been no material changes to our critical accounting
policies.
 
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market
Risk
 
At
December 31, 2019, the Company had $985,790 debt outstanding. The Credit Facility bears interest at a rate using the Prime Rate,
as reported in the Wall Street Journal, as the basis, and therefore is subject to additional expense should there be an increase
in market interest rates while borrowing on the revolving credit facility.
 
The Company had no
holdings of derivative financial or commodity instruments at December 31, 2019. The Company has international sales; however these
sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, mitigating foreign exchange rate fluctuation risk.
 


18 
 

 


Item 4.
 Controls and Procedures

 
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls
and Procedures
 
The Company maintains
controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that the Company files or submits
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in
the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the
Company's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure. Based upon their evaluation of those controls and procedures performed as of December 31, 2019,
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company concluded that its disclosure controls and procedures were
effective.
 
Changes in internal control over
financial reporting
 
There were no changes
in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2019 that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting.
 
Part II.	OTHER INFORMATION
 


Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.

 
On January 30,
2020, the Company filed a Citizen Participation Plan with the New York Department of Environmental Conservation under its
Brownfield Cleanup Program. The plan was with respect to the Company’s property in Stuyvesant Falls, New York. The plan
recognizes that the soil and groundwater at the Stuyvesant Falls facility is impacted by chemical compounds exceeding
regulatory standards. The Company has applied to the Brownfield Cleanup Program. Pursuant to
the plan, the Company will conduct, at its expense, investigation and remediation at the site with oversight by the
Department of Environmental Conservation.
 
The Company’s
best estimate of the expected cost to remediate the site is $0.9 million. This amount was recorded as an expense in the three months
ended December 31, 2019 and is reflected in other accrued liabilities and selling, general and administrative expenses in the Company’s
financial statements.
 


19 
 

 

Item 6.Exhibits 
 
(a) Exhibits:
 

 
*Notwithstanding any incorporation of this
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in any other filing by the Registrant, Exhibits furnished herewith and designated with an asterisk
(*) shall not be deemed incorporated by reference to any other filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 unless specifically otherwise set forth therein.
 
**Filed herewith as Exhibit 101 are the
following materials formatted in XBRL: (i) Statement of Operations, (ii) Balance Sheet, (iii) Statement of Cash Flows and (iv)
Notes to Financial Statements.
 


20 
 

 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
  


 
ALLIED HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS, INC.

 
 

 
/s/ Daniel C. Dunn

 

Daniel C. Dunn
Chief Financial Officer

 


 
Date: February 14, 2020

 


21 

 




