
10-Q
1
mesa-10q_20191231.htm
10-Q



mesa-10q_20191231.htm


 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 
 
FORM 10-Q 
 
(Mark One) 




☒

QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the quarterly period ended December 31, 2019
Or 




☐

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM                      TO                     
Commission File Number 001-38626 
 
MESA AIR GROUP, INC. 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
 
 


 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (602) 685-4000 
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 




Title of Each Class

 

Trading Symbol(s)

 

Name of Each Exchange of Which Registered



Common Stock, no par value

 

MESA

 

Nasdaq Global Select Market


 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  ☒    No  ☐ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).    Yes  ☒    No  ☐ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
 




Large accelerated filer

☐

 

Accelerated filer

☒



 

 

 

 

 



Non-accelerated filer

☐

 

Smaller reporting company

☐



 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

Emerging growth company

☒


 
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.  ☒ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes  ☐    No  ☒ 
As of December 31, 2019, the registrant had 33,039,126 shares of common stock, no par value per share, issued and outstanding. 
 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS
 


 
 

Where You Can Find More Information 
Investors and others should note that we may announce material business and financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (http://investor.mesa-air.com/), SEC filings, webcasts, press releases, and conference calls. We use these mediums, including our website, to communicate with our members and public about our company, our products, and other issues. It is possible that the information that we make available may be deemed to be material information. We therefore encourage investors and others interested in our company to review the information that we make available on our website. 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements 
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, business strategy and plans, and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other important factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. 
In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as "may", "should", "expects", "might", "plans", "anticipates", "could", "intends", "target", "projects", "contemplates", "believes", "estimates", "predicts", "potential", "seek", "would", "continue", or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. The forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are only predictions. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions described in the "Risk Factors" section and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Because forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events and circumstances reflected in our forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur and actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Some of the key factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations include: 




 

▪

the supply and retention of qualified airline pilots; 




 

▪

the volatility of pilot attrition; 




 

▪

dependence on, and changes to, or non-renewal of, our capacity purchase agreements; 




 

▪

increases in our labor costs; 




 

▪

reduced utilization (the percentage derived from dividing (i) the number of block hours actually flown during a given month under a particular capacity purchase agreement by (ii) the maximum number of block hours that could be flown during such month under the particular capacity purchase agreement) under our capacity purchase agreements; 




 

▪

direct operation of regional jets by our major airline partners; 




 

▪

the financial strength of our major airline partners; 




 

▪

limitations on our ability to expand regional flying within the flight systems of our major airline partners' and those of other major airlines; 




 

▪

our significant amount of debt and other contractual obligations; 




 

▪

our compliance with ongoing financial covenants under our credit facilities; and 




 

▪

our ability to keep costs low and execute our growth strategies. 
While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, whether as a result of any new information, future events, or otherwise, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. 
 
1

Part I – Financial Information 
Item 1. Financial Statements 
MESA AIR GROUP, INC. 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets 
(In thousands, except share amounts) (Unaudited)
 


 
See accompanying notes to these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
2

MESA AIR GROUP, INC. 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations 
(In thousands, except per share amounts) (Unaudited)
 


 
 
See accompanying notes to these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
3

MESA AIR GROUP, INC.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
(In thousands, except share amounts) (Unaudited)
 


 
 
MESA AIR GROUP, INC.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
(In thousands, except share amounts) (Unaudited)
 


 
See accompanying notes to these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
4

MESA AIR GROUP, INC.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands) (Unaudited)
 


 
See accompanying notes to these condensed consolidated financial statements.
(1 )See section 14 Leases and Commitments.
 
5

MESA AIR GROUP, INC. 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Unaudited) 




1.

Organization and Operations 
About Mesa Air Group, Inc.
Headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona, Mesa Air Group, Inc. ("Mesa" or the "Company") is a holding company whose principal subsidiary, Mesa Airlines, Inc. ("Mesa Airlines"), operates as a regional air carrier providing scheduled flight service to 144 cities in 41 states, the District of Columbia, Canada, Mexico, Cuba, and the Bahamas. As of December 31, 2019, Mesa operated a fleet of 145 aircraft with approximately 742 daily departures and 3,600 employees. Mesa operates all of its flights as either American Eagle or United Express flights pursuant to the terms of the capacity purchase agreements entered into with American Airlines, Inc. (“American”) and United Airlines, Inc. (“United”).
The financial arrangements between the Company and its major airline partners involve a revenue-guarantee arrangement (i.e. a "capacity purchase agreement") whereby the major airline pays a monthly guaranteed amount for each aircraft under contract, a fixed fee for each block hour (the number of hours during which the aircraft is in revenue service, measured from the time of gate departure before take-off until the time of gate arrival at the destination) and flight flown and reimbursement of certain direct operating expenses in exchange for providing regional flying. The major airline partners also pay certain expenses directly to suppliers, such as fuel, ground operations and landing fees. Under the terms of these capacity purchase agreements, the major airline controls route selection, pricing and seat inventories, thereby reducing the Company's exposure to fluctuations in passenger traffic, fare levels, and fuel prices. 
American Capacity Purchase Agreement 
As of December 31, 2019, the Company operated 60 CRJ-900 aircraft for American under our American Capacity Purchase Agreement. In exchange for providing flight services under our American Capacity Purchase Agreement, we receive a fixed monthly minimum amount per aircraft under contract plus certain additional amounts based upon the number of flights and block hours flown during each month. In addition, we may also receive incentives or incur penalties based upon our operational performance, including controllable on-time departures and controllable completion percentages. American also reimburses us for certain costs on an actual basis, including passenger liability and hull insurance and aircraft property taxes, all as set forth in our American Capacity Purchase Agreement. Other expenses, including fuel and certain landing fees, are directly paid to suppliers by American. In addition, American also provides, at no cost to us, certain ground handling and customer service functions, as well as airport-related facilities and gates at American hubs and cities where we operate.
Our American Capacity Purchase Agreement establishes minimum levels of flight operations.  In prior periods, the FAA Qualification Standards (as defined below) have negatively impacted our ability to hire pilots at a rate sufficient to support required utilization levels, and, as a result, we have issued credits to American pursuant to the terms of our American Capacity Purchase Agreement.
 
Our American Capacity Purchase Agreement will terminate with respect to different tranches of aircraft between 2021 and 2025, unless otherwise extended or amended. As of the date of this filing, we remain in discussions with American regarding the terms of extending the 32 aircraft that are due to expire in 2021 and the 20 aircraft that are due to expire in 2022 and the 7 that expire in 2025. Our American Capacity Purchase Agreement is subject to termination prior to that date, subject to our right to cure, in various circumstances including:




 

▪

If either American or we become insolvent, file for bankruptcy or fail to pay our debts as they become due, the non-defaulting party may terminate the agreement;




 

▪

Failure by us or American to perform the covenants, conditions or provisions of our American Capacity Purchase Agreement, subject to 15 days' notice and cure rights;




 

▪

If we are required by the FAA or the DOT to suspend operations and we have not resumed operations within three business days, except as a result of an emergency airworthiness directive from the FAA affecting all similarly equipped aircraft, American may terminate the agreement;




 

▪

If our controllable flight completion factor falls below certain levels for a specified period of time, subject to our right to cure; or




 

▪

Upon a change in our ownership or control without the written approval of American.
 
6

In the event that American has the right to terminate our American Capacity Purchase Agreement, American may, in lieu of termination, withdraw up to an aggregate of 14 aircraft from service under our American Capacity Purchase Agreement. Upon any such withdrawal, American's payments to us would be correspondingly reduced by the number of withdrawn aircraft.
On January 31, 2019, the Company entered into an amendment to the American Capacity Purchase Agreement, the terms of which provide for new and revised operational performance metrics, the Company's right to earn additional incentive compensation based on the achievement of such metrics, and the right of American to permanently withdraw up to six (6) aircraft in the event the Company fails to meet such new/revised performance metrics.  Under the terms of such amendment the Company agreed, effective April 2, 2019, to convert two (2) aircraft to be utilized by the Company as operational spares in the Company's sole discretion throughout its system. In July 2019, American exercised its right to permanently withdraw two (2) aircraft from the American Capacity Purchase Agreement due to the Company's failure to meet certain performance metrics. The aircraft were removed on November 2, 2019. On November 25, 2019, the Company amended its agreement with American Airlines. The Company did not meet certain performance metrics during the most recent measurement period, which allows American to remove two additional aircraft from the capacity purchase agreement. American has agreed to defer the right to remove these two aircraft but has elected to remove one of two previously deferred aircraft, effective January 2, 2020.  As of January 2, 2020 American has removed three (3) of the six (6) aircraft under this amendment and retains the right to permanently withdraw the remaining three (3) aircraft at any time.
United Capacity Purchase Agreement 
As of December 31, 2019, the Company operated 20 CRJ-700 and 60 E-175 aircraft for United under our United Capacity Purchase Agreement. In exchange for providing the flight services under our United Capacity Purchase Agreement, we receive a fixed monthly minimum amount per aircraft under contract plus certain additional amounts based upon the number of flights and block hours flown and the results of passenger satisfaction surveys. United also reimburses us for certain costs on an actual basis, including property tax per aircraft and passenger liability insurance. Other expenses, including fuel and certain landing fees, are directly paid to suppliers by United. We also receive a minimum profit margin based upon our operational performance. Under our United Capacity Purchase Agreement, United owns 42 of the 60 E-175 aircraft and leases them to us at nominal amounts. United reimburses us on a pass-through basis for all costs related to heavy airframe and engine maintenance, landing gear, auxiliary power units ("APUs") and component maintenance for the 42 E-175 aircraft owned by United. Our United Capacity Purchase Agreement permits United, subject to certain conditions, including the payment of certain costs tied to aircraft type, to terminate the agreement in its discretion, or remove aircraft from service, by giving us notice of 90 days or more. If United elects to terminate our United Capacity Purchase Agreement in its entirety or permanently remove select aircraft from service, we are permitted to return any of the affected E-175 aircraft leased from United at no cost to us. In addition, if United removes any of our 18 owned E-175 aircraft from service at its direction, United would remain obligated to assume the aircraft ownership and associated debt with respect to such aircraft through the end of the term of the agreement.
On November 26, 2019, we amended and restated our United Capacity Purchase Agreement to, among other things, incorporate the terms of the 11 prior amendments to that Agreement and to extend the term thereof through the addition of twenty (20) new Embraer E175LL aircraft to the scope of such Agreement.  These new aircraft will be financed and owned by us and operated for a period of twelve (12) years from the in-service date.  Deliveries of the new E175LL aircraft are scheduled to begin in May 2020 and be completed by December 31, 2020.  Commencing five (5) years after the actual in-service date, United has the right to remove the E175LL aircraft from service by giving us notice of 90 days or more, subject to certain conditions, including the payment of certain wind-down expenses plus, if removed prior to the ten (10) year anniversary of the in-service date, certain accelerated margin payments.   
In addition to adding the 20 new E175LL aircraft to the amended and restated United Capacity Purchase Agreement, we extended the term of our 42 E-175 aircraft leased from United for an additional five (5) years, which now expire between 2024 and 2028.  As part of the amended and restated United Capacity Purchase Agreement, we agreed to lease our twenty (20) CRJ-700 aircraft to another United Express service provider for a term of seven (7) years. We will continue to operate such aircraft until they are transitioned over the period between May 2020 and December 2020. United has a right to purchase the CRJ 700 aircraft at the then fair market value. In addition, we own 18 E-175 aircraft that expire in 2028. 
 
7

Our United Capacity Purchase Agreement is subject to early termination under various circumstances noted above and including:




 

▪

By United if certain operational performance factors fall below a specified percentage for a specified time, subject to notice under certain circumstances;




 

▪

By United if we fail to perform the material covenants, agreements, terms or conditions of our United Capacity Purchase Agreement or similar agreements with United, subject to thirty (30) days' notice and cure rights;




 

▪

If either United or we become insolvent, file bankruptcy or fail to pay debts when due, the non-defaulting party may terminate the agreement; or




 

▪

By United if we merge with, or if control of us is acquired by another air carrier or a corporation directly or indirectly owning or controlling another air carrier.
 




2.

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Basis of Presentation 
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned operating subsidiaries. Any reference in these notes to applicable guidance is meant to refer to the authoritative United States generally accepted accounting principles as found in the Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") and Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"). All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with, the Company's audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto as of and for the year ended September 30, 2019 included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2019 on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements have been condensed or omitted in these condensed consolidated financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC and GAAP. These condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments that, in the opinion of management, are necessary to present fairly the results of operations for the interim periods presented. 
The Company is an "emerging growth company," as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the "JOBS Act,") and may remain an emerging growth company until the last day of its fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the IPO, subject to specified conditions. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period afforded by the JOBS Act for the implementation of new or revised accounting standards. The Company has elected to "opt out" of such extended transition period, which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, the Company will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.
Adoption of New Lease Standard 
 
Effective October 1, 2019, we have adopted ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) ("ASU 2016-02") which provides guidance requiring lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for substantially all leases, with the exception of short-term leases. Leases will be classified as either financing or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of income. We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Our current lease activities are recorded in operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets, current maturities of operating lease and noncurrent operating lease liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Finance leases are included in property and equipment, net, current portion of long-term debt and financing leases, long-term debt and financing leases, excluding current portion.
 
 
8

ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. Variable lease payments are not included in the calculation of the right-of-use assets and lease liability due to uncertainty of the payment amount and are recorded as lease expense in the period incurred. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. We use the implicit rate when readily determinable. Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
 
As a lessor, for our aircraft operated under our capacity purchase agreements, we have historically accounted for the non-lease component under ASC 606 and have historically accounted for the lease component under ASC 840. Under the available practical expedient, we have elected to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single component for all classes of underlying assets.  As the predominant component of the combined components are the flights services, the leases are being accounted for entirely under ASC 606. As a lessee, we elected a short-term lease exception policy on all classes of underlying assets, permitting us to not apply the recognition requirements of this standard to short-term leases (i.e. leases with terms of 12 months or less).
 
 
Aircraft Lease
In addition to the aircraft we receive from United under our United Capacity Purchase Agreement, approximately 12% of our aircraft are leased from third parties. All of our aircraft leases have been classified as operating leases, which results in rental payments being charged to expense over the term of the related leases. In the event that we or one of our major airline partners decide to exit an activity involving leased aircraft, losses may be incurred. In the event that we exit an activity that results in exit losses, these losses are accrued as each aircraft is removed from operations for early termination penalties, lease settle up and other charges. Additionally, any remaining ROU assets and lease liabilities will be written off.
 
The majority of the Company's leased aircraft are leased through trusts that have a sole purpose to purchase, finance, and lease these aircraft to the Company; therefore, they meet the criteria of a variable interest entity. However, since these are single-owner trusts in which the Company does not participate, the Company is not at risk for losses and is not considered the primary beneficiary. Management believes that the Company's maximum exposure under these leases is the remaining lease payments.
 
Use of Estimates 
The preparation of the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
 
Maintenance Expense
The Company operates under a Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") approved continuous inspection and maintenance program. The Company uses the direct expense method of accounting for its maintenance of regional jet engine overhauls, airframe, landing gear, and normal recurring maintenance wherein the Company recognizes the expense when the maintenance work is completed, or over the repair period, if materially different. Our maintenance policy is determined by fleet when major maintenance is incurred. For leased aircraft, the Company is subject to lease return provisions that require a minimum portion of the "life" of an overhaul be remaining on the engine at the lease return date. The Company estimates the cost of maintenance lease return obligations and accrues such costs over the remaining lease term when the expense is probable and can be reasonably estimated.
 
9

Under the Company's aircraft operating lease agreements and FAA operating regulations, it is obligated to perform all required maintenance activities on its fleet, including component repairs, scheduled air frame checks and major engine restoration events. The Company estimates the timing of the next major maintenance event based on assumptions including estimated usage, FAA-mandated maintenance intervals and average removal times as recommended by the manufacturer. The timing and the cost of maintenance are based on estimates, which can be impacted by changes in utilization of its aircraft, changes in government regulations and suggested manufacturer maintenance intervals. Major maintenance events consist of overhauls to major components.
Engine overhaul expense totaled $10.6 million and $4.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019, and 2018, respectively, of which $1.9 million and $1.5 million, respectively, was pass-through expense.  Airframe C-check expense totaled $7.3 million and $1.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019, and 2018, respectively, of which $1.2 million and $0.0 million, respectively, was pass-through expense
 




3.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
 
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments ("ASU 2016-13"). This ASU introduces a new accounting model known as Credit Expected Credit Losses (“CECL”). CECL requires earlier recognition of credit losses, while also providing additional transparency about credit risk. The CECL model utilizes a lifetime expected credit loss measurement objective for the recognition of credit losses for receivables at the time the financial asset is originated or acquired. The expected credit losses are adjusted each period for changes in expected lifetime credit losses. This model replaces the multiple existing impairment models in current GAAP, which generally require that a loss be incurred before it is recognized. The new standard will also apply to receivables arising from revenue transactions such as contract assets and accounts receivables. There are other provisions within the standard affecting how impairments of other financial assets may be recorded and presented, as well as expanded disclosures. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted.  The Company is currently evaluating the impact on its consolidated financial statements.
 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) ("ASU 2016-02"), which provides guidance requiring lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for substantially all leases, with the exception of short-term leases. Leases will be classified as either financing or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of income. The Company adopted Topic 842 effective October 1, 2019 and elected the package of transition practical expedients for expired or existing contracts, which does not require reassessment of: (1) whether any of the Company’s contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification and (3) initial direct costs.  In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-11, "Targeted Improvements - Leases (Topic 842)." The Company did not elect the hindsight practical expedient. This update provides an optional transition method that allows entities to elect to apply the standard using the modified retrospective approach at its effective date, versus recasting the prior years presented. If this adoption method is elected, an entity would recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the year of adoption. The Company elected this adoption method on October 1, 2019.There was not adjustment to retained earnings. 
 
Additionally, the Company’s adoption of Topic 842 did not have a significant impact on the recognition, measurement or presentation of lease revenue and lease expenses within the consolidated statements of operations or the consolidated statements of cash flows. The Company’s adoption of Topic 842 did not have a material impact on the timing or amount of the Company’s lease revenue as a lessor.  The Company’s prepaid aircraft rents, accrued aircraft rents and deferred rent credits that were separately stated in the Company’s September 30, 2019 balance sheet have been classified as a component of the Company’s right-of-use assets effective October 1, 2019. The consolidated financial statements for the three months ended December 31, 2019 are presented under the new standard, while comparative years presented are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the Company’s historical accounting policy. See Note 14, "Leases, Commitments and Contingencies," for more information.
 
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-09, Codification Improvements, which contains amendments that affect a wide variety of Topics in the Codification, including amendment to Subtopic 718-40, Compensation-Stock Compensation-Income Taxes, that clarifies the timing of when an entity should recognize excess tax benefits. We adopted this standard on October 1, 2019 and it did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
10





4.

Concentrations 
At December 31, 2019, the Company had capacity purchase agreements with American and United. All of the Company's condensed consolidated revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 and accounts receivable at December 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018 was derived from these agreements. The terms of both the American and United capacity purchase agreements are not aligned with the lease obligations on the aircraft performing services under such agreements. 
Amounts billed by the Company under capacity purchase agreements are subject to the Company's interpretation of the applicable capacity purchase agreement and are subject to audit by the Company's major airline partners. Periodically, the Company's major airline partners dispute amounts billed and pay amounts less than the amount billed. Ultimate collection of the remaining amounts not only depends upon the Company prevailing under the applicable audit, but also upon the financial well-being of the major airline partner. As such, the Company periodically reviews amounts past due and records a reserve for amounts estimated to be uncollectible. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $1.8 million and $1.0 million at December 31, 2019 and September 30, 2019, respectively. If the Company's ability to collect these receivables and the financial viability of its partners is materially different than estimated, the Company's estimate of the allowance could be materially impacted. 
American accounted for approximately 51% and 53% of the Company's total revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. United accounted for approximately 49% and 47% of the Company's revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. A termination of either the American or the United capacity purchase agreement would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 




5.

Intangible Assets 
Information about the intangible assets of the Company at December 31, 2019 and September 30, 2019, were as follows (in thousands): 
 


 
Total amortization expense recognized was approximately $0.4 million and $0.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company expects to record amortization expense of $1.1 million for the remainder of 2020, and $1.2 million, $1.0 million, $0.9 million, $0.8 million for fiscal years 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024 respectively.
 
11





6.

Balance Sheet Information 
Certain significant amounts included in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2019 and September 30, 2019, consisted of the following (in thousands):
 


 
Depreciation expense totaled approximately $20.2 million and $18.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
Prior to the Company’s adoption of Topic 842 on October 1, 2019, the Company recorded amortization of the unfavorable lease liability of approximately $1.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as a reduction to lease expense. Upon the Company’s adoption of Topic 842, the unfavorable lease liability is now included in its ROU asset balance and amortized therein.
 




7.

Fair Value Measurements 
The carrying values reported in the condensed consolidated balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximate fair value because of the immediate or short-term maturity of these financial instruments.
The Company's debt agreements are not traded on an active market. The Company has determined the estimated fair value of its debt to be Level 3, as certain inputs used to determine the fair value of these agreements are unobservable and, therefore, could be sensitive to changes in inputs. The Company utilizes the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of Level 3 debt. 
 
12

The carrying value and estimated fair value of the Company's long-term debt, including current maturities, were as follows (in millions): 
 


 




(1) 

Current and prior period long-term debts' carrying and fair values exclude net debt issuance costs. 
 
 




8.

Long-Term Debt, Financing Leases and Other Borrowings 
Long-term debt as of December 31, 2019 and September 30, 2019, consisted of the following (in thousands): 
 


 




 
13





(3) 

In fiscal 2014, the Company financed eight CRJ-900 aircraft with $114.5 million in debt. The debt bears interest at 5.00% and requires monthly principal and interest payments. 














(9)

In fiscal 2015, the Company financed certain flight equipment with $8.3 million in debt. The debt bears interest at 5.163% and requires monthly principal and interest payments.








12) 

In February 2018, the Company leased two spare engines. The leases were determined to be capital as the leases contain a bargain purchase option at the end of the term. Imputed interest is 9.128% and the leases requires monthly payments. 








 
 
 
14

Principal maturities of long-term debt as of December 31, 2019, and for each of the next five years are as follows (in thousands): 
 


 
The net book value of collateralized aircraft and equipment as of December 31, 2019 was $1,081.0 million. 
In December 2015, an Enhanced Equipment Trust Certificate ("EETC") pass-through trust was created to issue pass-through certificates to obtain financing for new E-175 aircraft. At December 31, 2019 Mesa has $191.2 million of equipment notes outstanding issued under the EETC financing included in long-term debt on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. The structure of the EETC financing consists of a pass-through trust created by Mesa to issue pass-through certificates, which represent fractional undivided interests in the pass-through trust and are not obligations of Mesa. 
The proceeds of the issuance of the pass-through certificates were used to purchase equipment notes which were issued by Mesa and secured by its aircraft. The payment obligations under the equipment notes are those of Mesa. Proceeds received from the sale of pass-through certificates were initially held by a depositary in escrow for the benefit of the certificate holders until Mesa issued equipment notes to the trust, which purchased such notes with a portion of the escrowed funds. 
Mesa evaluated whether the pass-through trust formed for its EETC financing is a Variable Interest Entity ("VIE") and required to be consolidated. The pass-through trust was determined to be a VIE, however, the Company has determined that it does not have a variable interest in the pass-through trust, and therefore, has not consolidated the pass-through trust with its financial statements. 
On January 28, 2019, the Company entered into a Term Loan Agreement (the "Term Loan") pursuant to which the lenders thereunder committed to lend to the Company term loans in the aggregate principal amount of $91.2 million.  Borrowings under the Term Loan bear interest at LIBOR plus 3.10%. This interest rate is significantly lower than the interest rate under the Company's Spare Engine Facility (defined below), which the Term Loan refinanced and replaced.  The Spare Engine Facility accrued interest at LIBOR plus 7.25%.  The Term Loan has a term of five years, with principal and interest payments due monthly over the term of the loan in accordance with an amortization schedule.  The Company recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of $3.6 million, due to a $1.9 million write-off of financing fees and $1.7 million in prepayment penalties, in connection with the repayment of the Spare Engine Facility. 
On June 14, 2019, the Company completed the purchase of ten CRJ-700 aircraft, which were previously leased under the aircraft lease facility with Wells Fargo Bank Northwest, National Association, as owner trustee and lessor (the “GECAS Lease Facility”), for $70.0 million. The Company financed the aircraft purchase with $70.0 million in new debt. The notes payable of $70.0 million require monthly payments of principal and interest through fiscal 2023 bearing interest at LIBOR plus 5.0%. The Company recorded non-cash lease termination expense of $9.5 million in connection with the lease buyout (14).
On September 25, 2019, the company extended the term on their $35.0 million working capital draw loan by three years, which now terminates in September 2022. Interest is assessed on drawn amounts at one-month LIBOR plus 3.75%.
On September 27, 2019, the company financed certain flight equipment with $8.0 million in new debt. The debt of $8.0 million require monthly payments of principal and interest through fiscal 2023 bearing interest at Libor plus 5.0%(15).
 
15





9.

Earnings Per Share and Equity 
Calculations of net income per common share attributable to Mesa Air Group were as follows (in thousands, except per share data): 
 


 
 
Basic income per common share is computed by dividing net income attributable to Mesa Air Group by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. 
The number of incremental shares from the assumed issuance of shares relating to restricted stock and exercise of warrants (excluding warrants with a nominal conversion price) is calculated by applying the treasury stock method. Share-based awards and warrants whose impact is considered to be anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method were excluded from the diluted net income or loss per share calculation. In loss periods, these incremental shares are excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share, as the inclusion of unvested restricted stock and warrants would have an anti-dilutive effect. There were no anti-dilutive shares relating to restricted stock and exercise of warrants that were excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.
Restatement
Basic and Diluted Net Income per Common Share Available to Common Shareholders for the Three Months Ended December 31, 2018
Subsequent to the issuance of the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended December 31, 2018, we determined our previously issued condensed consolidated financial statements included warrants with a nominal conversion price in diluted income per common share available to common shareholders, however, they should have been included in basic income per common share available to common shareholders.  Since diluted shares are under the treasury stock method, diluted income per common share available to common shareholders was impacted by this change.  As a result, basic and diluted income per common share available to common shareholders for the periods ended December 31, 2018 have been restated to appropriately include the warrants with a nominal conversion price in basic income per common share available to common shareholders.  
The restatement adjustment did not impact our previously reported consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statements of stockholders’ equity, consolidated statements of cash flows, or net income (in thousands, except per share data). 
 


 
 
16





10.

Common Stock 
The Company previously issued warrants to third parties, which had a five-year term to be converted to common stock at an exercise price of $0.004 per share. Certain persons who are not U.S. citizens currently hold outstanding warrants to purchase shares of the Company's common stock. The warrants are exercisable if consistent with federal law, which requires that no more than 24.9% of the Company's stock be voted, directly or indirectly, or controlled by persons who are not U.S. citizens. The warrants can be converted to common stock upon warrant holders demonstrating U.S. citizenship or if consistent with above described federal law ownership limitations. In June 2018, the Company and holders agreed to extend the term of outstanding warrants set to expire by five years (through fiscal year 2023).
In July 2018, the Company's Board of Directors and Compensation Committee approved the issuance of shares of restricted common stock under its 2018 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2018 Plan") immediately following completion of the Company's IPO to certain of its employees and directors in exchange for the cancellation of existing restricted phantom stock units, unvested restricted shares and SARs. The shares of restricted common stock issued under the 2018 Plan in exchange for the cancellation of restricted phantom stock units, unvested restricted shares and SARs are subject to vesting on the same terms set forth in the prior vesting schedules and are not subject to acceleration in connection with the 2018 Plan issuances.
On August 8, 2018, the Company filed its Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, which, among other things: (i) effected a 2.5-for-1 stock split of its common stock; and (ii) increased the authorized number of shares of its common and preferred stock to 125,000,000 and 5,000,000, respectively. All references to share and per share amounts in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements have been retrospectively revised to reflect the stock split and increase in authorized shares.
The Company's shares of common stock were listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "MESA" effective August 10, 2018. On August 14, 2018, the Company completed its IPO, in which it issued and sold 9,630,000 shares of common stock, no par value, at a public offering price of $12.00 per share (the "Firm Shares"). Additionally, in connection with the IPO, the Company granted the underwriters an option to purchase up to an additional 1,444,500 shares of common stock at the same price. On September 11, 2018, the Company closed the sale of 1,344,500 shares ("Option Shares") of its common stock, in connection with the partial exercise of the overallotment option granted to the underwriters in its IPO. Of the 1,344,500 Option Shares sold, 723,985 were purchased directly from the Company and the remaining 620,515 shares were purchased directly from the selling shareholders. The Firm Shares and Option Shares were sold to the public for a price of $12.00 per share. The aggregate gross proceeds to us from the IPO were approximately $124.2 million. The Company received $111.7 million in net proceeds after deducting $8.7 million of underwriting discounts and commissions and $3.6 million in offering costs.
On April 9, 2019, and pursuant to Section 4.4 of the 2018 Plan in connection with the 2.5-for-1 stock split effected on August 8, 2018, the board of directors approved an increase in the number of shares authorized for issuance under the 2018 Plan by 1,000,000 shares of common stock.   
The Company has not historically paid dividends on shares of its common stock. Additionally, the Company's aircraft lease facility (the "RASPRO" Lease Facility) with RASPRO Trust 2005, a pass-through trust contains restrictions that limit the Company's ability to or prohibit it from paying dividends to holders of its common stock. 




11.

Income Taxes 
The Company's effective tax rate (ETR) from continuing operations was 24.7% for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 23.8% for the three months ended December 31, 2018. The Company's current year effective tax rate increased compared to the prior year tax rate as a result of an increase to permanent differences between book and taxable income in the deductibility of meals, employer provided parking, and compensation of officers.  In addition, the Company's rate varied from the prior year's as a result of the vesting of stock compensation where the tax deduction differed from the book expense, state taxes, changes in the valuation allowance against state net operating losses, and changes in state statutory rates.  
 
17

The income tax provision for the three months ended December 31, 2019 results in an effective tax rate of 24.7% which differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to permanent book and tax deductible expense differences, state taxes, changes in the valuation allowance against state net operating losses, routine stock vestings and exercises, and changes in state apportionment and state statutory rates. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance on a portion of our state net operating losses in jurisdictions with shortened carryforward periods or in jurisdictions where our operations have significantly decreased as compared to prior years in which the net operating losses were generated.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company had aggregate federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of $478.3 million and $228.3 million, respectively, which expire in 2027-2037 and 2020-2039, respectively.  Approximately $2.7 million of state net operating loss carryforwards are expiring in 2020. 




12.

Share-Based Compensation and Stock Repurchases
Restricted Stock 
The restricted share activity for the three months ended December 31, 2019 were summarized as follows: 
 


 
As of December 31, 2019, there was $4.8 million, of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based compensation arrangements. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years. 
Compensation cost for share-based awards are recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Share-based compensation expense for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was $1.3 million and $1.5 million, respectively.
The Company repurchased 5,403 shares of its common stock for $0.04 million to cover the income tax obligation on vested employee equity awards and warrant conversions during the three months ended December 31, 2019.  
The Company has granted restricted stock awards (“RSAs”) and restricted stock units (“RSUs”) as part of its long-term incentive compensation to employees and non-employee members of the Board of Directors.  RSAs and RSUs generally vest over a period of 3 to 5 years for employees and over one year for members of the Board of Directors.  The restricted common stock underlying RSAs are deemed issued and outstanding upon grant, and carry the same voting rights of unrestricted outstanding common stock.  The restricted common stock underlying RSUs are not deemed issued or outstanding upon grant, and do not carry any voting rights.  




13.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan
2019 ESPP
The Mesa Air Group, Inc. 2019 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2019 ESPP") is a nonqualified plan that provides eligible employees of Mesa Air Group, Inc. with an opportunity to purchase Mesa Air Group, Inc. ordinary shares through payroll deductions. Under the 2019 ESPP, eligible employees may purchase Mesa Air Group, Inc. ordinary shares through the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Under the 2019 ESPP, eligible employees may elect to contribute 1% to 15% of their eligible compensation during each semi-annual offering period to purchase Mesa Air Group, Inc. ordinary shares at a 10% discount.
A maximum of 500,000 Mesa Air Group, Inc. ordinary shares may be issued under the 2019 ESPP. As of December 31, 2019, we had not issued any Mesa Air Group, Inc. ordinary shares under the 2019 ESPP.  
 
 
18





14.

Leases and Commitments 
 
Effective October 1, 2019, the Company adopted Topic 842 and recorded ROU assets and lease liabilities of $154.6 million and $141.9 million, respectively. As part of the adoption, prepaid aircraft rent, deferred rent credits and accrued aircraft rents of $35.8 million, $21.3 million and $1.8 million, respectively, were classified as a component of the Company’s ROU assets.
 
At December 31, 2019, the Company leased 18 aircraft, airport facilities, office space, and other property and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases. The leases require the Company to pay all taxes, maintenance, insurance, and other operating expenses. Rental expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term, net of lessor rebates and other incentives. The Company expects that, in the normal course of business, such operating leases that expire will be renewed or replaced by other leases, or the property may be purchased rather than leased. Aggregate rental expense under all operating aircraft, equipment and facility leases totaled approximately $16.8 million and $19.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
 
As of December 31, 2019, the Company’s operating lease right-of-use assets were $146.1 million, the Company’s current maturities of operating lease liabilities were $37.7 million, and the Company’s noncurrent lease liabilities were $96.0 million. 
 
As of December 31, 2019, the Company’s operating lease payments in operating cash flows for the quarter ended December 31, 2019 is $9.5 million. The disclosure is not applicable for the quarter ended December 31, 2018 due to the method of adoption of the new leasing Standard ASC-842. (1)
 
The table below presents lease related terms and discount rates as of December 31, 2019:
 




As of December 31,2019

 

 

 

 



Weighted average remaining lease term Operating
   leases

 

4.3 years

 



Weighted average discount rate Operating leases

 

 

4.3

%


 


 
The following table summarizes future minimum rental payments primarily related to leased aircraft required under operating leases that had initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms as of December 31, 2019 (in thousands): 
 


 
 
19

The following represents future minimum lease obligations under non-cancelable operating leases as of September 30, 2019 (in thousands):
 
 


 
 




15.

Contingencies 
The Company is involved in various legal proceedings (including, but not limited to, insured claims) and FAA civil action proceedings that the Company does not believe will have a material adverse effect upon its business, financial condition, or results of operations, although no assurance can be given to the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings.




16.

Supplemental Disclosure 
The Company adopted ASU 2016-18 on a retrospective basis during the quarter ended December 31, 2018. The following is a reconciliation of the captions in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets to the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands):
 


 
The restricted cash balance primarily includes deposits in trust accounts to collateralize letters of credit and to fund workers' compensation claims, landing fees, and other business needs.




17.

Subsequent Events  
None.
 
20

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements, the accompanying notes, and the other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion contains forward‑looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties such as our plans, estimates, and beliefs.  Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements below.  Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, particularly in the sections titled "Cautionary Notes Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" above and "Risk Factors" below.
Overview 
Mesa Airlines is a regional air carrier providing scheduled flight service to 144 cities in 41 states, the District of Columbia, Canada, Mexico, Cuba and the Bahamas. All of our flights are operated as either American Eagle or United Express flights pursuant to the terms of capacity purchase agreements we entered into with American Airlines, Inc. ("American") and United Airlines, Inc. ("United") (each, our "major airline partner"). We have a significant presence in several of our major airline partners' key domestic hubs and focus cities, including Dallas, Houston, Phoenix and Washington-Dulles. 
As of December 31, 2019, we operated a fleet of 145 aircraft with approximately 742 daily departures. We operate 60 CRJ-900 aircraft under our capacity purchase agreement with American (our "American Capacity Purchase Agreement") and 20 CRJ-700 and 60 E-175 aircraft under our capacity purchase agreement with United (our "United Capacity Purchase Agreement"). For the three months ended December 31, 2019, approximately 55.2% of our aircraft in scheduled service were operated for United and approximately 44.8% were operated for American. All of our operating revenue in our fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 (our "2019 fiscal year") and the three months ended December 31, 2019 was derived from operations associated with our American and United Capacity Purchase Agreements.  
Our long-term capacity purchase agreements provide us guaranteed monthly revenue for each aircraft under contract, a fixed fee for each block hour (the number of hours during which the aircraft is in revenue service, measured from the time of gate departure before take-off until the time of gate arrival at the destination) and flight actually flown, and reimbursement of certain direct operating expenses in exchange for providing regional flying on behalf of our major airline partners. Our capacity purchase agreements also shelter us from many of the elements that cause volatility in airline financial performance, including fuel prices, variations in ticket prices, and fluctuations in number of passengers. In providing regional flying under our capacity purchase agreements, we use the logos, service marks, flight crew uniforms and aircraft paint schemes of our major airline partners. Our major airline partners control route selection, pricing, seat inventories, marketing and scheduling, and provide us with ground support services, airport landing slots and gate access. 
Components of Results of Operations 
The following discussion summarizes the key components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations. 
Operating Revenues 
Our condensed consolidated operating revenues consist primarily of contract revenue flight services as well as pass-through and other revenues. 
Contract Revenue. Contract revenue consists of the fixed monthly amounts per aircraft received pursuant to our capacity purchase agreements with our major airline partners, along with the additional amounts received based on the number of flights and block hours flown. Contract revenues we receive from our major airline partners are paid and recognized by us on a weekly basis. 
Pass-Through and Other. Pass-through and other revenue consists of passenger and hull insurance, aircraft property taxes, and certain maintenance costs related to our E-175 aircraft. 
Operating Expenses 
Our operating expenses consist of the following items: 
Flight Operations. Flight operations expense includes costs related to salaries, bonuses and benefits earned by our pilots, flight attendants, and dispatch personnel, as well as costs related to technical publications, lodging of our flight crews and pilot training expenses. 
 
21

Fuel. Fuel expense includes fuel and related fueling costs for flying we undertake outside of our capacity purchase agreements, including aircraft repositioning and maintenance.  All aircraft fuel and related fueling costs for flying under our capacity purchase agreements were directly paid and supplied by our major airline partners. Accordingly, we do not record an expense or the related revenue for fuel supplied by American and United for flying under our capacity purchase agreements. 
Maintenance. Maintenance includes costs related to engine overhauls, airframe, landing gear and normal recurring maintenance, which includes pass-through maintenance costs related to our E-175 aircraft, as well as maintenance lease return obligations on our leased aircraft when the expense is probable and can be reasonably estimated. We record these expenses using the direct expense method of accounting, wherein the expense is recognized when the maintenance work is completed, or over the repair period, if materially different. Our maintenance policy is determined by fleet when major maintenance is incurred. As a result of using the direct expense method, the timing of maintenance expense reflected in the financial statements may vary significantly period to period. 
Aircraft Rent. Aircraft rent includes costs related to leased engines and aircraft. 
Aircraft and Traffic Servicing. Aircraft and traffic servicing includes expenses related to our capacity purchase agreements, including aircraft cleaning, passenger disruption reimbursements, international navigation fees and wages of airport operations personnel, a portion of which are reimbursable by our major airline partners. 
General and Administrative. General and administrative expense includes insurance and taxes, the majority of insurance and taxes are pass-through costs, non-operational administrative employee wages and related expenses, building rents, real property leases, utilities, legal, audit and other administrative expenses. 
Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense is a periodic non-cash charge primarily related to aircraft, engine and equipment depreciation. Amortization expense is a periodic non-cash charge related to our customer relationship intangible asset. 
Other (Expense) Income, Net 
Interest Expense. Interest expense is interest on our debt to finance purchases of aircraft, engines, equipment as well as debt financing costs amortization. 
Interest Income. Interest income includes interest income on our cash and cash equivalent balances. 
Other Expense. Other expense includes expense derived from activities not classified in any other area of the condensed consolidated statements of income, including write-offs of miscellaneous third-party fees. 
Segment Reporting 
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing operating performance. In consideration of ASC 280, "Segment Reporting," we are not organized around specific services or geographic regions. We currently operate in one service line providing scheduled flight services in accordance with our capacity purchase agreements. 
While we operate under two separate capacity purchase agreements, we do not manage our business based on any performance measure at the individual contract level. Additionally, our chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) uses condensed consolidated financial information to evaluate our performance, which is the same basis on which he communicates our results and performance to our Board of Directors. The CODM bases all significant decisions regarding the allocation of our resources on a consolidated basis. Based on the information described above and in accordance with the applicable literature, management has concluded that we are organized and operated as one operating and reportable segment. 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Non-GAAP Measures 
We present EBITDA and EBITDAR in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which are not recognized financial measures under GAAP, as supplemental disclosures because our senior management believes that they are well recognized valuation metrics in the airline industry that are frequently used by companies, investors, securities analysts and other interested parties in comparing companies in our industry. 
 
22

EBITDA. We define EBITDA as net income or loss before interest, income taxes, and depreciation and amortization.
EBITDAR. We define EBITDAR as net income or loss before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and aircraft rent.
EBITDA and EBITDAR have limitations as analytical tools. Some of the limitations applicable to these measures include: (i) EBITDA and EBITDAR do not reflect the impact of certain cash charges resulting from matters we consider not to be indicative of our ongoing operations; (ii) EBITDA and EBITDAR do not reflect our cash expenditures, or future requirements, for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; (iii) EBITDA and EBITDAR do not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; (iv) EBITDA and EBITDAR do not reflect the interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on our debts; (v) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future; and (vi)  EBITDA and EBITDAR do not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements and other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA and EBITDAR differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these limitations, EBITDA and EBITDAR should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, EBITDAR should not be viewed as a measure of overall performance because it excludes aircraft rent, which is a normal, recurring cash operating expense that is necessary to operate our business. For the foregoing reasons, each of EBITDA and EBITDAR has significant limitations which affect its use as an indicator of our profitability. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on this information. 
Results of Operations 
Three Months Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 
We had operating income of $27.2 million in our three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to operating income of $39.2 million in our three months ended December 31, 2018.  In our three months ended December 31, 2019, we had net income of $10.8 million compared to net income of $19.1 million in our three months ended December 31, 2018.  Our operating results for the three months ended December 31, 2019 reflected an increase in contract revenue primarily related to additional flying on our E-175 fleets and an increase in pass-through and other revenues primarily due to an increase in maintenance pass-through expense.
Our maintenance expense increased primarily due to more C-check and engine heavy maintenance events due to timing of events.  Our aircraft rent decreased in the three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 mainly as a result of purchasing ten CRJ-700 aircraft that were previously leased under our GECAS Lease Facility.  We also had an increase in depreciation expense primarily due to the purchase of ten CRJ-700 aircraft that were previously leased under our GECAS Lease Facility. 
Operating Revenues 
 


 
"Available seat miles" or "ASMs" means the number of seats available for passengers multiplied by the number of miles the seats are flown. 
 
23

"Average stage length" means the average number of statute miles flown per flight segment. 
“Block hours” means the number of hours during which the aircraft is in revenue service, measured from the time of gate departure before take-off until the time of gate arrival at the destination. 
"CRASM" means contract revenue divided by ASMs. 
"RPM" means the number of miles traveled by paying passengers. 
Total operating revenue increased by $5.9 million, or 3.3%, to $184.0 million for our three months ended December 31, 2019 as compared to our three months ended December 31, 2018. Contract revenue increased by $1.4 million, or 0.8%, to $171.8 million primarily due to an increase in flying on our E-175 fleet offset by a reduction in credits given to our major airline partners based on contractual utilization levels and decrease in AA ownership revenue due to removal of four aircraft.  Our block hours flown during our three months ended December 31, 2019 increased 0.5% compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 primarily due to increased flying on our E-175 fleet. Our pass-through and other revenue increased during our three months ended December 31, 2019 by $4.5 million, or 58.8%, to $12.2 million primarily due to pass-through maintenance revenue related to our E-175 fleet. 
Operating Expenses 
 


 
Flight Operations. Flight operations expense decreased $0.6 million, or 1.1%, to $52.6 million for our three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018.  The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in pilot training wages and related training costs, partially offset by an increase in pilot and flight attendant wages as staffing levels have improved.
Fuel. Fuel expense increased $0.05 million, or 39.7%, to $0.2 million for our three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018.  The increase was primarily driven by an increase in ferry flight fuel. All fuel costs related to flying under our capacity purchase agreements during our three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were directly paid to suppliers by our major airline partners.
Maintenance. Aircraft maintenance costs increased $18.3 million, or 46.0%, to $58.1 million for our three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in engine overhaul expense, c-check expense, and labor and other expense.  Total pass-through maintenance expenses reimbursed by our major airline partners increased by $3.5 million during our three months ended December 31, 2019. 
 
24

The following table presents information regarding our maintenance costs during our three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands): 
 


 
Aircraft Rent. Aircraft rent expense decreased $2.8 million, or 19.8%, to $11.3 million for our three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease is attributable to a $3.9 million decrease in aircraft lease expense as a result of purchasing ten CRJ-700 aircraft which were previously leased under the GECAS Lease Facility in June 2019, offset by a $1.1 million increase in engine rent due to leasing additional engines. 
Aircraft and Traffic Servicing. Aircraft and traffic servicing expense increased $0.1 million, or 13.9%, to $1.1 million for our three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. The increase is primarily due to an increase in interrupted trip expense, offset partially by pass-through regulatory charges. For our three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, 42.2% and 53.4%, respectively, of our aircraft and traffic servicing expenses were reimbursed by our major airline partners. 
General and Administrative. General and administrative expense increased $0.8 million, or 6.4%, to $13.0 million for our three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. The increase is primarily due to an increase in pass-through insurance expenses. For our three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, $4.4 million and $3.1 million, respectively, of our insurance and property tax expenses were reimbursed by our major airline partners.
Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.1 million, or 11.1%, to $20.6 million for our three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. The increase is primarily attributable to an increase in depreciation expense related to the purchase of ten CRJ-700 aircraft which were previously leased under the GECAS Lease Facility.  The increase was also partially related to the purchase of spare engines and rotable inventory, partially offset by a decrease in aircraft enhancement depreciation.
Other Expense 
Other expense decreased $1.3 million, or 9.4%, to $12.9 million for our three months ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease is primarily a result of a decrease in interest expense due to lower interest rates on our new Spare Engine Facility and a decrease in outstanding aircraft principal balances. Additionally, our loss on disposal increased in the three months ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018. 
Income Taxes 
The Company’s effective tax rate (ETR) from continuing operations was 24.7% for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 23.8% for the three months ended December 31, 2018. The Company's current year effective tax rate increased compared to the prior year tax rate as a result of an increase to permanent differences between book and taxable income in the deductibility of meals, employer provided parking, and compensation of officers. In addition, the Company's rate varied from the prior year's as a result of the vesting of stock compensation where the tax deduction differed from the book expense, state taxes, changes in the valuation allowance against state net operating losses, and changes in state statutory rates.
The income tax provision for the three months ended December 31, 2019 results in an effective tax rate of 24.7% which differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to permanent book and tax deductible expense differences, state taxes, changes in the valuation allowance against state net operating losses, routine stock vestings and exercises, and changes in state apportionment and state statutory rates.
 
25

We continue to maintain a valuation allowance on a portion of our state net operating losses in jurisdictions with shortened carryforward periods or in jurisdictions where our operations have significantly decreased as compared to prior years in which the net operating losses were generated. 
As of September 30, 2019, we had aggregate federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of $478.3 million and $228.3 million, respectively, which expire in 2027-2037 and 2020-2039, respectively.  Approximately $2.7 million of state net operating loss carryforwards are expected to expire in 2020. 
 
EBITDA and EBITDAR 
The following table presents a reconciliation of net income to estimated EBITDA and EBITDAR for the period presented (in thousands): 
 


 
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
Sources and Uses of Cash 
We require cash to fund our operating expenses and working capital requirements, including outlays for capital expenditures, aircraft pre-delivery payments, maintenance, aircraft rent and to pay debt service obligations, including principal and interest payments. Our cash needs vary from period to period primarily based on the timing and costs of significant maintenance events. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations and funds from external borrowings. In the near term, we expect to fund our primary cash requirements through cash generated from operations and cash and cash equivalents on hand. We also have the ability to utilize our credit and guaranty agreement (the "CIT Revolving Credit Facility") pursuant to which the CIT Lenders committed to lend to Mesa Airlines and Mesa Air Group—Airline Inventory Management, LLC, ("MAG-AIM") revolving loans in the aggregate principal amount of up to $35.0 million, which remains available until the facility matures on August 12, 2022.
We believe that the key factors that could affect our internal and external sources of cash include: 




 

▪

Factors that affect our results of operations and cash flows, including the impact on our business and operations as a result of changes in demand for our services, competitive pricing pressures, and our ability to achieve further reductions in operating expenses; and 




 

▪

Factors that affect our access to bank financing and the debt and equity capital markets that could impair our ability to obtain needed financing on acceptable terms or to respond to business opportunities and developments as they arise, including interest rate fluctuations, macroeconomic conditions, sudden reductions in the general availability of lending from banks or the related increase in cost to obtain bank financing, and our ability to maintain compliance with covenants under our debt agreements in effect from time to time. 
Our ability to service our long-term debt obligations, including our equipment notes, to remain in compliance with the various covenants contained in our debt agreements and to fund working capital, capital expenditures and business development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash from operating activities, which is subject to, among other things, our future operating performance, as well as to other factors, some of which may be beyond our control. 
If we fail to generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise additional equity or borrow additional funds to achieve our longer-term objectives. There can be no assurance that such equity or borrowings will be available or, if available, will be at rates or prices acceptable to us. 
 
26

We believe that cash flow from operating activities coupled with existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and existing credit facilities will be adequate to fund our operating and capital needs, as well as enable us to maintain compliance with our various debt agreements, through at least the next 12 months. To the extent that results or events differ from our financial projections or business plans, our liquidity may be adversely impacted.  
During the ordinary course of business, we evaluate our cash requirements and, if necessary, adjust operating and capital expenditures to reflect the current market conditions and our projected demand. Our capital expenditures are primarily directed toward our aircraft fleet and flight equipment. Our capital expenditures, net of purchases of rotable spare parts and aircraft and spare engine financing for three months ending December 31,2019 is approximately 4.6% which is higher compared to our historical expense of approximately 1.2% to 1.5% of annual revenues due to expenses incurred related to aircraft enhancements. We expect to continue to incur capital expenditures to support our business activities. Future capital expenditures may be impacted by events and transactions that are not currently forecasted. 
As of December 31, 2019, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents of $57.8 million. In addition, we had restricted cash of $3.4 million as of December 31, 2019. Restricted cash includes certificates of deposit that secure letters of credit issued for particular airport authorities as required in certain lease agreements. Primary uses of liquidity are capital expenditures, and debt repayments. As of December 31, 2019, we had $164.1 million of short-term debt, excluding financing leases, and $641.0 million of long-term debt excluding financing leases. 
Sources of cash for the three months ended December 31, 2019 were primarily cash flows from operations of $38.2 million. This positive cash flow was primarily driven by receipts from performance under our capacity purchase agreements. 
Restricted Cash 
As of December 31, 2019, we had $3.4 million in restricted cash. We have an agreement with a financial institution for a $6.0 million letter of credit facility and to issue letters of credit for landing fees, worker's compensation insurance and other business needs. Pursuant to the agreement, $3.5 million of outstanding letters of credit are required to be collateralized by amounts on deposit. 
 
Cash Flows 
The following table presents information regarding our cash flows for each of the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands): 
 


 
Net Cash Flow Provided By Operating Activities 
During our three months ended December 31, 2019, cash flow provided by operating activities of $38.2 million. We had net income of $10.8 million adjusted for the following significant non-cash items: depreciation and amortization of $20.6 million, stock-based compensation of $1.3 million, deferred income taxes of $3.2 million, amortization of deferred credits of $(1.1) million, amortization of debt financing costs and accretion of interest on non-interest bearing subordinated notes of $1.1 million, $0.4 million loss on disposal of assets and $0.1 million provision of obsolete expendable parts and supplies. We had a net change of $1.9 million within other net operating assets and liabilities largely driven by an increase in accrued liability during our three months ended December 31, 2019.
Net Cash Flows Used In Investing Activities 
During our three months ended December 31, 2019, net cash flow used in investing activities totaled $(12.8) million. We invested $2.8 million in two spare engines, $5.0 million in aircraft improvements, $4.5 million in inventory, and $0.6 million in miscellaneous projects. 
 
27

Net Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities 
During our three months ended December, 2019, net cash flow used in financing activities was $(36.7) million. We made $36.5 million of principal repayments on long-term debt during the period. We incurred $0.2 million of costs related to debt financing and $0.04 million of costs related to the repurchase of shares of our common stock.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
An off-balance sheet arrangement is any transaction, agreement or other contractual arrangement involving an unconsolidated entity under which a company has (i) made guarantees, (ii) a retained or a contingent interest in transferred assets, (iii) an obligation under derivative instruments classified as equity or (iv) any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the company, or that engages in leasing, hedging or research and development arrangements with the company.
We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). 
A majority of our leased aircraft are leased through trusts formed for the sole purpose of purchasing, financing and leasing aircraft to us. Because these are single-owner trusts in which we do not participate, we are not at risk for losses and we are not considered the primary beneficiary. We believe that our maximum exposure under the leases are the remaining lease payments and any return condition obligations.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In doing so, we must make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations would be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting estimates, which we discuss below.
The accompanying discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We believe certain of our accounting policies are critical to understanding our financial position and results of operations. Except with respect to our revenue recognition practices included in Note 2: "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, there have been no changes to the critical accounting policies as explained in Part 1, Item 7 of the 2018 Form 10-K under the heading "Critical Accounting Policies." 
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 
A description of recently issued accounting pronouncements that may potentially impact our financial position and results of operations is disclosed in Note 3: "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
We are subject to market risks in the ordinary course of our business. These risks include interest rate risk and, on a limited basis, commodity price risk with respect to foreign exchange transactions. The adverse effects of changes in these markets could pose a potential loss as discussed below. The sensitivity analysis provided does not consider the effects that such adverse changes may have on overall economic activity, nor does it consider additional actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. Actual results may differ. 
Interest Rate Risk. We are subject to market risk associated with changing interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt; the variable interest rates are based on LIBOR. The interest rates applicable to variable rate notes may rise and increase the amount of interest expense on our variable rate long-term debt. We do not purchase or hold any derivative instruments to protect against the effects of changes in interest rates. 
 
28

As of December 31, 2019, we had $540.2 million of variable-rate debt including current maturities. A hypothetical 50 basis point change in market interest rates would have affected interest expense by approximately $2.7 million in the three months ended December 31, 2019. 
As of December 31, 2019, we had $285.2 million of fixed-rate debt, including current maturities. A hypothetical 50 basis point change in market interest rates would not impact interest expense or have a material effect on the fair value of our fixed-rate debt instruments as of December 31, 2019. 
Foreign Currency Risk. We have de minimis foreign currency risks related to our station operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Canadian dollar. Our revenue is U.S. dollar denominated. To date, foreign currency transaction gains and losses have not been material to our financial statements and we have not had a formal hedging program with respect to foreign currency. A 10% increase or decrease in current exchange rates would not have a material effect on our financial results. 
Fuel Price Risk. Unlike other airlines, our capacity purchase agreements largely shelter us from volatility related to fuel prices, which are directly paid and supplied by our major airline partners. 
Item 4. Controls and Procedures 
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The term "disclosure controls and procedures," as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and our management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
During the three months ended December 31, 2019, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02 “Leases (Topic 842).” The operating effectiveness of these changes will be evaluated as part of our annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.
Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls 
The effectiveness of any system of internal control over financial reporting, including ours, is subject to inherent limitations, including the exercise of judgment in designing, implementing, operating, and evaluating the controls and procedures, and the inability to eliminate misconduct completely. Accordingly, in designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any system of internal control over financial reporting, including ours, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable, not absolute assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. In addition, the design of disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the benefits of possible controls and procedures relative to their costs. Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. We intend to continue to monitor and upgrade our internal controls as necessary or appropriate for our business, but cannot assure you that such improvements will be sufficient to provide us with effective internal control over financial reporting.  
 
29

PART II – OTHER INFORMATION 
Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
We are subject to commercial and employment litigation claims, FAA civil action proceedings and to other administrative and regulatory proceedings and reviews. We currently believe that the ultimate outcome of such claims, proceedings and reviews will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Additionally, from time to time we are subject to legal proceedings and regulatory oversight in the ordinary course of our business. 
Item 1A. Risk Factors 
We refer you to documents filed by us with the SEC, specifically "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019, which identify important risk factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition and future results. We also refer you to the factors and cautionary language set forth in the section entitled "Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-looking Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes, should be read in conjunction with such risks and other factors for a full understanding of our operations and financial condition. The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 and herein are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
None.
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities 
None. 
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 
Not applicable. 
Item 5. Other Information 
None. 
Item 6. Exhibits 
 
30

EXHIBIT INDEX 
 


 




*

This certification will not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. Such certification will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except to the extent specifically incorporated by reference into such filing. 




**

Certain confidential information contained in this agreement has been omitted because it (i) is not material and (ii) would be competitively harmful if publicly disclosed.
 
 
31

SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
 




 

 

MESA AIR GROUP, INC.



 

 

 

 



Date: February 10, 2020

 

By:

/s/ Michael J. Lotz 



 

 

 

Michael J. Lotz
President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)


 
 
 
32


