
10-Q
1
e619283_10q-magna.htm


 
U.S. SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
WASHINGTON,
D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-Q
 
(Mark One)


☒QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

 

For the quarterly period ended: November
                                         30, 2019

 
OR
 

☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO
                                         SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

 

For the transition period from _________ to ______

 
Commission File Number 	0-21320	
 
Magna-Lab Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter)
 


 
New York
 
11-3074326	
 

 
(State or other jurisdiction
of incorporation or organization)
 
(IRS Employer Identification No.)
 

 
 


 



 
 
 

 
(Former name, former
address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report)
 

 
Check whether the issuer (1)
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act during the past 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes    ☒  No ☐
 
Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company”
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):
 


Large accelerated filer ☐
Accelerated filer ☐

Non-accelerated filer ☐
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
Smaller reporting company ☒

 
Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes    ☒  No ☐
 
APPLICABLE ONLY TO CORPORATE ISSUERS
 
State the number of shares outstanding
of each of the issuer's classes of common equity as of the latest practicable date – October 10, 2019
 




 





 
MAGNA-LAB INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
 
CONTENTS
 
 


 
All items which are not applicable or to which the answer is
negative have been omitted from this report.
 



Table of Contents

 
PART I: FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Item 1. - Financial Statements
 
MAGNA-LAB INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 


 
See accompanying notes
to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 


1
Table of Contents

 
MAGNA-LAB INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
For the three and nine months ended November
30, 2019 and 2018
(unaudited)
 

 
See accompanying notes
to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 


2
Table of Contents

 
MAGNA-LAB
INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS
For the nine months ended November 30,
2019 and 2018
(unaudited)
 

 
See accompanying notes
to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 


3
Table of Contents

 
MAGNA-LAB INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS'
DEFICIT
For the three and nine months ended November
30, 2019 and 2018
(unaudited)
 
For the three months ended November 30, 2019:
 


 
For the nine months ended November
30, 2019:
 


 
See accompanying notes
to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 


4
Table of Contents

 
MAGNA-LAB INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS'
DEFICIT
For the three and nine months ended November
30, 2018 and 2019
(unaudited)
 
For the three months ended November
30, 2018:
 

 
For the nine months ended November
30, 2018:
 

 
See accompanying notes
to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 


5
Table of Contents

 
MAGNA-LAB INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
(Unaudited)
 
NOTE 1 - BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND CONSOLIDATION:
 
The accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial
statements have been prepared in accordance with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X for smaller reporting
companies and do not include all of the information and disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America (“GAAP”). The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
Magna-Lab Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary, Cardiac MRI, Inc. (collectively, the “Company”) and all significant
intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. All adjustments which are of a normal recurring nature
and, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation have been included. These interim unaudited condensed consolidated
financial statements should be read in conjunction with the more complete information and the Company’s audited consolidated
financial statements and related notes thereto included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended February
28, 2019. The operating results for the three and nine months ended November 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results
that may be expected for the year ending February 29, 2020. All dollar amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars.
 
NOTE 2 -	DISCUSSION OF THE COMPANY'S ACTIVITIES, GOING
CONCERN CONSIDERATION AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS:
 
Company Activities -
The Company is focused on engaging in a “reverse merger” transaction with an unrelated business that would benefit
from the Company’s public reporting status. Additional activities have included preserving cash, making settlements with
creditors, attempting to raise capital and continuing the Company’s public reporting.
 
The Company was previously
engaged in research, development and commercialization activities until it ceased such activities during the period September 2002
through March 2003. The Company’s efforts to raise additional capital or enter into a strategic arrangement in order to complete
commercialization of its cardiac diagnostic Illuminator products and development of its Artery View product or to seek other means
to realize value through sale, license or otherwise have been unsuccessful and therefore, in January 2017, the Company sold such
technology to its President and CEO in exchange for relief from certain liabilities.
 
Going Concern Consideration - As indicated in the accompanying
interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, at November 30, 2019, the Company had approximately $1,000 of cash
and approximately $1,768,000 in negative working capital and stockholders’ deficit and negative cash flows from operations.
For the nine months ended November 30, 2019, the Company had a net loss of approximately $103,000 and utilized approximately $20,000
of cash in operating activities. Further, losses are continuing subsequent to November 30, 2019. These factors, among others, indicate
that the Company is in need of additional financing or a strategic arrangement in order to continue its planned activities for
the fiscal year that began on March 1, 2019. The Company’s plans to deal with this uncertainty are described above in “Company
Activities.” Management’s plans to raise capital, enter into a strategic arrangement or sell or merge with an unrelated
business have not been successful to date and there can be no assurance that management’s plans can be realized at all. While
a shareholder provided the Company with additional loans subsequent to November 30, 2019 (Note 4), such amounts are not sufficient
to continue operations for the coming twelve months and the Company has no commitment for further financing. These factors, among
others, raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue operations as a going concern. No adjustments have
been made in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements to the amounts and classification of assets and liabilities
which could result should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern.
 
Subsequent Events - Management has evaluated subsequent
events to determine if events or transactions occurring after the date of the financial statements but before the financial statements
were issued, require potential adjustment to or disclosure in the financial statements and has concluded that all such events that
would require adjustment or disclosure have been recognized or disclosed.
 


6
Table of Contents

 
NOTE 3 – NET LOSS PER COMMON SHARE:
 
The Company complies with the accounting and reporting requirements
of U.S. GAAP with respect to computing its net loss per common share. Net loss per common share is computed based on the weighted
average number of Class A Common and Class B Common shares outstanding.
 
Basic loss per share excludes dilution and is computed by dividing
loss available to common stockholders by the weighted average common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted loss per share
reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted
into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that then shared in the earnings of the entity. Since there are no
options, warrants or derivative securities outstanding, basic and diluted loss per share were the same for the three and nine month
periods ended November 30, 2019 and 2018.
 
NOTE 4 – NOTES PAYABLE – RELATED PARTY:
 
Notes payable include 12% unsecured notes payable to the Company’s
principal stockholder, Magna Acquisition LLC (“MALLC”) in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $687,000,
plus approximately $675,000 of interest accrued. In addition, notes payable include 10% unsecured notes payable to a director of
the Company (who is also a manager of MALLC) in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $17,000, plus approximately $1,000
of interest accrued. All of such notes become due 120 days after issuance and, as such, approximately $687,000 principal amount
of the MALLC notes, and approximately $14,000 of the director notes, are overdue at November 30, 2019. The notes that are overdue
bear interest at 15% per year for the MALLC notes, and at 12% per year for the director notes, subsequent to their maturity date.
 
The Company intends to make a proposal to this principal stockholder
and to this director to convert all amounts outstanding to them (including overdue amounts) into common stock of the Company.
 
NOTE 5 – ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUALS:
 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities include approximately
$18,000 payable to a third party, guaranteed by our principal stockholder, for amounts paid to an account payable in October 2007
on our behalf. This amount is repayable if the proposed merger transaction with this party was not completed. This party subsequently
merged with a third party and abandoned its possible transaction with the Company, however there has not been a demand for repayment
of this amount. The Company believes it would be entitled to an offset for recovery of certain costs from this third party associated
with that proposed transaction pursuant to understandings between the parties.
 
Some of the amounts recorded as accounts payable may have passed
the statute of limitations for purposes of the vendor seeking recovery of such monies. The Company has not undertaken a formal
study to evaluate recorded payables past the statute of limitations for purposes of possible write-off of such payables. See also
Notes 3 and 8 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended February 28, 2019 for other information on outstanding liabilities and related matters.
 
There was no activity in the restructuring accrual for the pre-1997
activities during the three months ended November 30, 2019 or 2018. The Company periodically adjusts the remaining accrual based
on the status of the matters and activity given the passage of time.
 
NOTE 6 – STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION:
 
In accordance with GAAP, the Company recognizes the cost of
employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments in the financial statements based on the grant date fair
value of those awards. Stock awards to consultants and other non-employees are accounted for based on an estimate of their fair
value at the time of grant. The fair value of each option or warrant grant under GAAP is estimated on the date of the grant using
the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions: risk free interest rate of 5%; no dividend
yield; expected option lives of five to nine years and expected volatility in excess of 200%.	
 
In April 2004, the Board of Directors agreed to reserve 90,000
shares of class A common stock for issuance to directors and management in the event that their efforts result in Board approval
of a merger or financing transaction. The criteria for recognition of this share compensation was met on July 24, 2008 and the
Company recorded stock-based compensation expense of approximately $10,000 reflecting the fair value of the 90,000 shares at the
date of entry into the agreement at the closing bid price of the Company’s stock. Because of cash constraints, the Company
has not been able to issue such shares. However, for accounting purposes, the Company has accounted for such shares as though they
have been issued.
 


7
Table of Contents

 
NOTE 7 – EFFECT OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS:
 
Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not
yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on the accompanying interim unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements.
 


8
Table of Contents

 
Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations
 
Forward Looking
Statements
 
Some of the statements
contained in this report discuss our plans and strategies for our business or state other forward-looking statements, as this term
is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not statements of historical facts may
be deemed to be forward-looking statements. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect,"
"plan," "intend," "should," "seek," "will," and similar expressions are intended
to identify these forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying them. These forward-looking statements
reflect the current views of our management. However, various risks, uncertainties and contingencies could cause our actual results,
performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. See our Form 10-K for
the year ended February 28, 2019 for a discussion of certain known risks; also see Part II, Item 1A.
 
Overview, Background and History
 
We are currently a
“shell company” with no meaningful assets or operations other than our efforts to identify and merge with an operating
company. We no longer have any full-time employees and our Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers serve on a part-time consulting
basis.
 
Prior to March 2003, our business had been
focused on pre-revenue development and commercialization of disposable medical devices designed to enhance the effectiveness of
magnetic resonance imaging in detection and diagnosis of heart disease. Due to the unavailability of funding, beginning in the
fall of 2002 we essentially ceased all of our operations including product development and commercialization activities. Our efforts
to realize value for our prior business and MRI technology have been unsuccessful. As a result, we view our most viable option
to be merging with an unrelated operating company that would benefit from our status as a reporting company in a so-called “reverse
merger” transaction. Entering into a “reverse merger” would likely involve very substantial dilution to the existing
stockholders. It would, however, provide an opportunity to return some value to stockholders. While we have identified and explored
merging with a number of candidates over the past few years and entered into definitive agreements with one candidate (which agreement
was subsequently terminated), we have no commitments to merge with any company at the present time.
 
In January 2017, the Company’s President
and Chief Executive Officer (the “CEO”) entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”)
with the Company. Under the Purchase Agreement, the CEO purchased all of the intellectual property rights, any and all physical
assets, any and all permits and all non-financial books, records, files, design specification, software and other data related
to the Company’s magnetic resonance imaging technology. In exchange for purchased assets, the CEO (a) assumed all liabilities
of the Company related exclusively to the purchased assets and (b) agreed to forgiveness of all indebtedness owing from the Company
totaling approximately $110,000 including intellectual property counsel fees and costs, $68,000 of which had been paid by and is
therefore due to the CEO for payments he has made on the Company’s behalf in prior years in an attempt to preserve certain
intellectual property rights at that time. The CEO ceased making such payments several years ago and, as such, the underlying intellectual
property became compromised.
 
In order to raise cash to continue our efforts
to pursue a reverse merger, on October 31, 2005, the Company consummated a stock purchase agreement with Magna Acquisition LLC
(“MALLC”) which resulted in a change of control of our Company. Under the agreement, we sold 300,000 shares of Class
A Common Stock to MALLC for gross proceeds of $190,000, before expenses. Contemporaneous with the new investment, MALLC purchased
from our former principal stockholder 307,727 shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock, representing all the shares of
our common stock owned by that stockholder. Two of our directors and our Chief Financial Officer serve as sole managers of MALLC,
with the ability to vote and dispose of the shares of our Company owned by MALLC by majority vote. These directors have assumed
a lead role with management in pursuing financing and merger candidates and operating matters.
 
MALLC has been responsible for substantially
all of our funding since October 2005 and until December 2018. During the period from October 2005 through and including December
31, 2018, MALLC loaned us an aggregate approximately $687,000 under a series of promissory notes payable that mature 120 days from
issuance. At November 30, 2019, approximately $687,000 face amount of such notes were beyond their maturity date and therefore
due on demand. The notes bore interest at 12% per year which increased to 15% per year for periods beyond maturity. During 2019,
a director of the Company loaned the Company an aggregate of approximately $17,000 under unsecured notes payable with substantially
the same terms as the MALLC notes payable except that the interest rate decreased from 12% to 10% and the penalty interest rate
decreased from 15% to 12%. The Company intends to make a proposal to MALLC and to this director to convert all of the amounts outstanding
to them (including overdue amounts) into common stock of the Company.
 


9
Table of Contents

 
While we have reduced our expenditures very
significantly, we do not have sufficient cash to continue our activities for the coming twelve months. We currently do not have
any commitments for new funding.
 
Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital
Resources - At November 30, 2019, the Company had approximately $1,000 cash and approximately $1,768,000 in negative working
capital and stockholders’ deficit and negative cash flows from operations. For the nine months ended November 30, 2019, the
Company had a net loss of approximately $103,000 and utilized approximately $20,000 of cash in operating activities. Further, losses
are continuing subsequent to November 30, 2019. These factors, among others, indicate that the Company is in need of additional
financing or a strategic arrangement in order to continue its planned activities for the fiscal year that began on March 1, 2019.
These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue operations as a going concern.
 
Our plan of operations
for the coming twelve months is to pursue our “reverse merger” strategy by seeking, evaluating and negotiating with
merger candidates and to continue to take actions to preserve our cash and continue our public reporting. We do not have the cash
resources to continue our plan for the coming twelve months, even at our reduced expenditure levels. As such, we may have to take
further measures or cease activities altogether, including terminating our public reporting status.
 
We currently have no material commitments
for capital expenditures.
 
Results of Operations – During
the three and nine months ended November 30, 2019, our net loss was approximately $34,000 and $103,000, respectively, compared
to a net loss of approximately $33,000 and $115,000, respectively, in the three and nine months ended November 30, 2018. The decrease
in the loss is due principally to lower costs of occupancy and insurance as the Company made reductions in these expenses. Such
decreases were offset somewhat by the higher debt levels and higher default interest in the three and nine months ended November
30, 2019 that resulted in an increase in interest expense.
 
Our expenses, particularly
professional and consulting fees, can increase significantly if we are actively engaged in negotiations for a merger transaction.
There can be no assurance that any of our activities will result in any transaction. Our interest expenses are increasing with
additional outstanding borrowings which are increasingly at default interest rates (15% on outstanding debt to MALLC and 12% on
outstanding director notes).
 
Off Balance Sheet Arrangements -
 
The Company has no material off balance
sheet arrangements that are likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition,
revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital resources or capital expenditures.
 
Critical
Accounting Principles –
 
We have identified critical accounting principles
that affect our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements by considering accounting policies that involve the
most complex or subjective decisions or assessments as well as considering newly adopted principals. They are:
 
Going Concern Consideration –
Our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming we are a “going concern.”
We are in need of immediate substantial additional capital or a strategic business arrangement in order to continue our planned
activities. There can be no assurance that our plans to address this need can be realized. As such, we may be unable to continue
operations as a going concern. No adjustments have been made in the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements
that could result should we be unable to continue as a going concern.
 


10
Table of Contents

 
Our other accounting policies, which we
do not consider critical accounting policies, are contained in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements at February 28,
2019 contained in our Form 10-K.
 
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk
 
Market risk is the
sensitivity of income or loss to changes in interest rates, foreign exchanges, commodity prices, equity prices, and other market
driven rates or prices. We are not presently engaged in any substantive commercial business. Accordingly, the risks associated
with foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, and equity prices are not significant. Our debt obligations contain interest rates
that are fixed and we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
 
Item 4T. Controls and Procedures
 
In June 2018, the
Company’s auditors advised the Audit Committee that they believe that a material weakness in internal accounting controls
exists by reason of the impact of the Company’s financial constraints on its ability to continue its timely public reporting
as well as the lack of desirable segregation of duties, among other matters.  Based on this information, management has revised
its conclusion on the adequacy of its disclosure controls and its internal accounting controls to that stated below.
 
(a) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls
and Procedures.  The Company’s senior management is responsible for establishing and maintaining a system of disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange
Act”) designed to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits
under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange
Act is accumulated and communicated to the issuer’s management, including its principal executive officer or officers and
principal financial officer or officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosure.
 
The Company has evaluated the effectiveness
of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures under the supervision of and with the participation of management,
including the Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based
on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures
are not effective.
 
(b) Changes in Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting. There have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during our most recently completed fiscal quarter which is the subject of this
report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
 
There are inherent limitations in any system
of internal control. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance
that its objectives are met. Further, the design of a control system must consider that resources are not unlimited and the benefits
of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation
of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been
detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgment in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns
can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons,
by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls.
_____________________________________
 


11
Table of Contents

 
PART II - OTHER INFORMATION
 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 
 
Any investment in our
common stock involves a high degree of risk. Some of these many known risks that affect an investment
in our Company (there can be others) include: 
 

·we have incurred significant net losses in the past and unless we receive additional financing, we
may be forced to cease all operations and liquidate our Company,
 

·we may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to raise capital and to complete a business
combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership,
 

·in order to simplify our operations to make a merger transaction potentially more attractive to an
unrelated business, we have divested ourselves of any of our remaining cardiac MRI technology, or other technology,
 

·if we merge with an unrelated business, it is likely that our current officers and directors may resign
upon consummation of a business combination,
 

·because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities,
we may not be able to consummate a business combination with suitable growth potential,
 

·we may be unable to obtain additional financing that may be needed to fund the operations and/or growth
of the target business,
 

·we have no full-time employees and are substantially dependent on the efforts of part-time management
and members of the Board of Directors, working for no compensation or per-diem compensation which is not being paid currently,
none of whom are bound by term employment agreements and
 

·our significant stockholders and executive officers and directors currently are able, by virtue of
their position as managers of Magna Acquisition LLC, a 56% stockholder of the Company, to influence matters requiring stockholder
approval and their interests may conflict with those of other stockholders.
 
For a more complete listing
and description of these and other risks that the Company faces please see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February
28, 2019.
 
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities
 
As discussed in Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview, Background and History, approximately $687,000
principal amount of 12% notes payable to Magna Acquisition LLC (“MALLC), and approximately $14,000 of director notes, are
in default at November 30, 2019 as a result of their non-payment when due. Such notes now carry a default rate of interest of 15%
for the MALLC notes and 12% for the director notes.
 
Item 6. - Exhibits
 

 

 

 

 

10.76Note Payable to Joel Kanter dated May 20, 2019*

 

10.77Note Payable to Joel Kanter dated July 8, 2019**

 

10.78Note Payable to Joel Kanter dated November 4, 2019***

 
* Filed with the Form 10Q for the period ended May 31, 2019
** Filed with the Form 10Q for the period ended August 31,
2019
*** Filed herewith.
 


12
Table of Contents

 
SIGNATURES
 
In accordance with the requirements
of the Exchange Act, the registrant caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.
 
 









 
MAGNA-LAB INC.
 


 
 
(Registrant)
 

 
 
 
 


Date: January 13, 2019

By:
/s/ Lawrence A. Minkoff
 


 
 


Lawrence A. Minkoff, Chairman, President and Chief Scientific Officer (Principal Executive Officer)


 


 
 
 
 

 
By:
/s/ Kenneth C. Riscica
 

 
 
Kenneth C. Riscica, Treasurer and Secretary
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
 

 
 


13
Table of Contents

 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

No.Description

 

 

 

 

 

10.76Note Payable to Joel Kanter dated May 20, 2019*

 

10.77Note Payable to Joel Kanter dated July 8, 2019**

 

10.78Note Payable to Joel Kanter dated November 4, 2019***

 
 
* Filed with the Form 10Q for the period ended May 31, 2019
** Filed with the Form 10Q for the period ended August 31,
2019
*** Filed herewith.


