
10-Q
1
f10q_021120p.htm
FORM 10-Q



 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
 
FORM 10-Q
(Mark One)
 

 
Commission File Number: 001-34816
 
TECHNICAL COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 


Massachusetts
 
04-2295040

(State or other jurisdiction of
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

incorporation or organization)
 
 

 
 
 

100 Domino Drive, Concord, MA
 
01742-2892

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)

 
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (978) 287-5100
 


 
N/A
 

 
(Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report)
 

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 


Title of each class
Trading Symbol(s)
Name of each exchange on which registered

Common
TCCO
NASDAQ Capital Market

 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days. Yes   X     No      
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes   X    No
_____
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions
of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging
growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 


Large accelerated filer
☐
Accelerated filer
☐
Emerging growth company
☐

Non-accelerated filer
☒
Smaller reporting company 
☒
 

 
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant
has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided
pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ___   No   X  
 
Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer's
classes of common stock as of the latest practicable date. 1,850,403 shares of Common Stock, $0.10 par value, outstanding as of
February 3, 2020.
 


 




 
INDEX
 

 
 

 




 
TECHNICAL COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
Consolidated Balance Sheets
 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited
consolidated financial statements.
 


Page 1



 
TECHNICAL COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(Unaudited)
 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited
consolidated financial statements.
 


Page 2



 
TECHNICAL COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(Unaudited)
 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited
consolidated financial statements.

 


Page 3



 
TECHNICAL COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity
(Unaudited)
 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited
consolidated financial statements.

 


Page 4


 
TECHNICAL COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 


NOTE 1.
 
Description of the Business and Basis of Presentation

 
Company Operations
 
Technical Communications Corporation (“TCC”) was incorporated
in Massachusetts in 1961; its wholly-owned subsidiary, TCC Investment Corp., was organized in that jurisdiction in 1982. Technical
Communications Corporation and TCC Investment Corp. are sometimes collectively referred to herein as the “Company”.
The Company’s business consists of only one industry segment, which is the design, development, manufacture, distribution,
marketing and sale of communications security devices, systems and services. The secure communications solutions provided by TCC
protect vital information transmitted over a wide range of data, video, fax and voice networks. TCC’s products have been
sold into over 115 countries and are in service with governments, military agencies, telecommunications carriers, financial institutions
and multinational corporations.
 
Interim Financial Statements
 
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of
Technical Communications Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiary include all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management,
necessary for a fair presentation of the financial position and results of operations for the periods presented and in order to
make the financial statements not misleading. All such adjustments are of a normal recurring nature. Interim results are not necessarily
indicative of the results to be expected for the fiscal year ending September 26, 2020.
 
The September 28, 2019 consolidated balance sheet contained herein
was derived from the Company’s September 28, 2019 audited consolidated balance sheet as contained in the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2019 as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”). Certain footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles have been condensed or omitted as allowed by SEC rules and regulations. The accompanying unaudited
consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements
and the notes thereto for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2019 included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the
SEC.
  
The Company follows accounting standards set by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board, commonly referred to as the FASB. The FASB sets generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”)
that the Company follows to ensure it consistently reports its financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. References
to GAAP issued by the FASB in these footnotes are to the FASB Accounting Standards CodificationTM - sometimes
referred to as the Codification or ASC.
 
Liquidity and Ability to Continue as
a Going Concern
 
The Company has suffered recurring losses
from operations and had an accumulated deficit of $2,635,000 at December 28, 2019. These factors raise substantial doubt about
the Company's ability to continue as a going concern within one year from the issuance date of the unaudited consolidated financial
statements included in this Quarterly Report. The unaudited consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to
reflect the substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
 
The
Company anticipates that its principal sources of liquidity will only be sufficient to fund activities to December 2020. In order
to have sufficient cash to fund operations beyond that point, the Company will need to secure new customer contracts, raise additional
equity or debt capital and/or reduce expenses, including payroll and payroll-related expenses.
 


Page 5



 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)
 
In
order to have sufficient capital resources to fund operations, the Company has been working diligently to secure several large
orders with new and existing customers. The Company is also pursuing raising capital. Although the Company believes its ability
to secure such new business or raise new capital is likely, the Company cannot provide assurances it will be able to do so. 
 
Should the Company be unsuccessful
in these efforts, it would be forced to implement headcount reductions, employee furloughs and/or reduced hours for certain employees
or cease operations completely.
 
Reporting Period
 
The Company’s by-laws call for its fiscal year to end on the
Saturday closest to the last day of September, unless otherwise decided by its Board of Directors.
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of TCC and its wholly-owned subsidiary. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated
in consolidation.
 
The discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition
and results of operations are based on the unaudited consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance
with GAAP. The preparation of these unaudited consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
of the financial statements and the reported revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
 
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments,
including but not limited to those related to revenue recognition, inventory reserves, receivable reserves, marketable securities,
impairment of long-lived assets, income taxes, fair value of financial instruments and stock-based compensation. Management bases
its estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances,
the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily
apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results may differ
from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
 


NOTE 2.
 
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates

 
The Company’s significant accounting policies are described
in “Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in its Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 28, 2019 (“2019 Annual Report”) and are supplemented by the notes
included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The financial statements and related notes included in this Quarterly Report should
be read in conjunction with the Company’s 2019 Annual Report.
 
Recently Adopted Accounting Standard - Leases
 
Leases
 
Effective September 29, 2019, the Company adopted ASU No. 2016-02,
Leases (Topic 842) (“ASC 842”), using the modified retrospective approach and did not have a cumulative-effect
adjustment in retained earnings as a result of the adoption. ASU 842 requires an entity to
recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements.
Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user
of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The adoption of this
standard required the Company to recognize a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability associated with the operating
lease on its facilities at 100 Domino Drive, Concord, MA in the amount of $767,712 at September 29, 2019. The adoption of ASC 842
did not materially change the Company’s consolidated statements of income or consolidated statements of cash flows. See “Note
6. Leases” for further discussion.
 


Page 6


 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)
 


NOTE 3.
 
Stock-Based Compensation

 
The following table summarizes stock-based compensation costs included
in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations for the first quarter of each of fiscal 2020 and 2019:
 

 
As of December 28, 2019, there was $166,678 of unrecognized compensation
expense related to options outstanding. The unrecognized compensation expense will be recognized over the remaining requisite service
period. As of December 28, 2019, the weighted average period over which the compensation expense is expected to be recognized is
3.49 years.
 
As of December 28, 2019, there were 191,200 shares available for
grant under the Technical Communications Corporation 2010 Equity Incentive Plan. TCC’s 2005 Non-Statutory Stock Option Plan
has expired and options are no longer available for grant under such plan.
 
The following table summarizes stock option activity during the
first three months of fiscal 2020:
 

 
Information related to the stock options vested and expected to
vest as of December 28, 2019 is as follows:
 

 
The aggregate intrinsic value of the Company’s “in-the-money”
outstanding and exercisable options as of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 was $33,758 and $0, respectively. Nonvested stock
options are subject to the risk of forfeiture until the fulfillment of specified conditions.
 


Page 7


 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)
 


NOTE 4.
 
Revenue

 
The following table presents the Company’s revenues disaggregated
by revenue type for the first three months of fiscal 2020 and 2019.
 
Revenue type: 
 

 
Engineering services revenue consists of funded research and development
and technology development for commercial companies and government agencies primarily under fixed-price contracts. The Company
also derives revenue from developing and designing custom cryptographic solutions for customers’ unique secure voice, data
and video communications requirements and integrating such solutions into existing systems. These contracts can vary but typically
call for fixed monthly payments or payments due upon meeting certain milestones. Customers are billed monthly or upon achieving
the milestone and payments are due on a net basis after the billing date.
 
Equipment sales revenue consists of sales of communications security
equipment for voice, data, facsimile and video networks for military, government and corporate/industrial applications. Equipment
sales are billed to the customer upon shipment with typical payment terms requiring a down payment at the time of order with the
balance due prior to shipment. For government and certain long term customers, we may grant net payment terms.
 



NOTE 5.
 
Inventories

 
Inventories consisted of the following:
 

 


NOTE 6.
 
Leases

 
The Company leases space from a third party for all manufacturing,
research and development, and corporate operations. The initial term of the lease was for five years through March 31, 2019 at
an annual rate of $171,000. In addition, the lease contains options to extend the lease for two and one-half years through September
30, 2021 and another two and one-half years through March 31, 2024 at an annual rate of $171,000. In September 2018, the Company
exercised its option to extend the term of the lease through September 2021. The Company believes that it will exercise the remaining
option to extend the lease, notice of which must be given by March 1, 2021. As such, the Company uses the extended lease term in
its calculation of the lease liability and right-of-use asset. The Company classifies this lease as an operating lease with the
costs recognized as a selling, general and administrative expense in its consolidated statements of operations. The lease expense
for each of the three month periods ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 was $43,000.
 


Page 8


 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)
 
The table below presents the maturity of the Company’s operating lease liability
as of December 28, 2019:
 

 


NOTE 7.
 
Income Taxes

 
The Company has not recorded an income tax benefit on its net loss
for the three month periods ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 due to its uncertain realizability. During previous fiscal
years, the Company recorded a valuation allowance for the full amount of its net deferred tax assets since it could not predict
the realization of these assets.
 


NOTE 8.
 
Loss Per Share

 
Outstanding potentially dilutive stock options, which were not included
in the net loss per share amounts as their effect would have been anti-dilutive, were as follows: 237,500 shares at December 28,
2019 and 227,137 shares at December 29, 2018.
 


NOTE 9.
 
Major Customers and Export Sales

 
During the three months ended December 28, 2019, the Company had
two customers that represented 87% (61% and 26%, respectively) of net revenue and at December 28, 2019 had one customer representing
99% of accounts receivable. During the three months ended December 29, 2018, the Company had one customer that represented 74%
of net revenue and at December 29, 2018 had one customer representing 100% of accounts receivable.
 
A breakdown of foreign and domestic net revenue for first three
months of fiscal 2020 and 2019 is as follows:
 

 
The Company sold products into one country during the three month
period ended December 28, 2019 and two countries during the three month period ended December 29, 2018. A sale is attributed to
a foreign country based on the location of the contracting party. Domestic revenue may include the sale of products shipped through
domestic resellers or manufacturers to international destinations. The table below summarizes foreign revenues by country as a
percentage of total foreign revenue for the first quarters of fiscal 2020 and 2019.
 

 


Page 9


 

NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)
 
A summary of foreign revenue, as a percentage of total foreign revenue
by geographic area, for the first quarters of fiscal 2020 and 2019 is as follows:
 

 


NOTE 10.
 
Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities

 
The Company considers all highly liquid instruments with an original
maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are invested in money market mutual funds. Money market
mutual funds held in a brokerage account are considered available for sale. The Company accounts for marketable securities in accordance
with FASB ASC 320, Investments—Debt and Equity Securities. All marketable securities must be classified as one of
the following: held to maturity, available for sale, or trading. The Company classifies its marketable securities as either available
for sale or held to maturity.
 
Available for sale securities are carried at fair value, with unrealized
holding gains and losses reported in stockholders’ equity as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss). Held to maturity securities, of which there were none at December 28, 2019 or September 29, 2018, are carried at amortized
cost. The cost of securities sold is determined based on the specific identification method. Realized gains and losses, and declines
in value judged to be other than temporary, are included in investment income.
 
 
 
 
 


Page 10


 
Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain statements contained herein or as may otherwise be incorporated
by reference herein that are not purely historical constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding
anticipated operating results, future earnings, and the Company’s ability to achieve growth and profitability. Such forward-looking
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, including but not limited to the effect of foreign
political unrest; domestic and foreign government policies and economic conditions; future changes in export laws or regulations;
changes in technology; the ability to hire, retain and motivate technical, management and sales personnel; the risks associated
with the technical feasibility and market acceptance of new products; changes in telecommunications protocols; the effects of changing
costs, exchange rates and interest rates; and the Company's ability to secure adequate capital resources. Such risks, uncertainties
and other factors could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company, or industry results, to be materially
different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. For a more
detailed discussion of the risks facing the Company, see the Company’s filings with the SEC, including its Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2019.
 
Overview
 
The Company designs, manufactures, markets and sells communications
security equipment that utilizes various methods of encryption to protect the information being transmitted. Encryption is a technique
for rendering information unintelligible, which information can then be reconstituted if the recipient possesses the right decryption
“key”. The Company manufactures several standard secure communications products and also provides custom-designed,
special-purpose secure communications products for both domestic and international customers. The Company’s products consist
primarily of voice, data and facsimile encryptors. Revenue is generated principally from the sale of these products, which have
traditionally been to foreign governments either through direct sale, pursuant to a U.S. government contract, or made as a sub-contractor
to domestic corporations under contract with the U.S. government. We also sell these products to commercial entities and U.S. government
agencies. We generate additional revenues from contract engineering services performed for certain government agencies, both domestic
and foreign, and commercial entities.
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and
Estimates
 
There have been no material changes in the Company’s critical
accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since September 28, 2019 and we have not adopted any accounting policies that
have had or will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. For further discussion of our accounting policies
see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates in the Notes to Unaudited
Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2019 as filed with the SEC.
 
Results of Operations
 
Three Months ended December 28, 2019 compared to Three Months
ended December 29, 2018
 
Net Revenue 
 
Total net revenue for the quarter ended December 28, 2019 was $666,000,
compared to $1,112,000 for the quarter ended December 29, 2018, a decrease of 40%. Revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2020
consisted of $492,000, or 74%, from domestic sources and $174,000, or 26%, from international customers as compared to the same
period in fiscal 2019, during which revenue consisted of $1,023,000, or 92%, from domestic sources and $89,000, or 8%, from international
customers.
 


Page 11


 
Foreign sales consisted of a shipment to one country during the
quarter ended December 28, 2019 and two countries during the quarter ended December 29, 2018. A sale is attributed to a foreign
country based on the location of the contracting party. Domestic revenue may include the sale of products shipped through domestic
resellers or manufacturers to international destinations. The table below summarizes our principal foreign sales by country during
the first quarters of fiscal 2020 and 2019:
 

 
For the three months ended December 28, 2019, revenue was derived
primarily from sales of our engineering services amounting to $409,000 and shipments of our internet protocol data encryptors to
a customer in a Middle Eastern country amounting to $172,000.
 
For the three months ended December 29, 2018, revenue was derived
primarily from sales of our engineering services amounting to $990,000 and shipments of our internet protocol data encryptors to
a customer in the Middle East amounting to $79,000.
 
Gross Profit
 
Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was $309,000,
compared to gross profit of $399,000 for the same period of fiscal 2019, a decrease of 23%. Gross profit expressed as a percentage
of total net revenue was 46% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 36% for the same period in fiscal 2019. This increase
in gross profit expressed as a percentage of total net revenue was primarily due to the higher sales volume of higher margin equipment
sales in fiscal 2020.
 
Operating Costs and Expenses
 
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter
of fiscal 2020 were $584,000, compared to $545,000 for the same quarter in fiscal 2019. This increase of $39,000, or 7%, was attributable
to increases in general and administrative expenses of $29,000 and increases in selling and marketing expenses of $9,000 during
the three months ended December 28, 2019.
 
The increase in general and administrative
expenses for the three months ended December 28, 2019 was primarily attributable to increases in audit and legal fees of $17,000,
an increase in director fees of $8,000 and an increase in insurance of $9,000. These increases were partially offset by a decrease
in outside certification costs of $6,000 during the quarter.
 
The increase in selling and marketing expenses for the three months
ended December 28, 2019 was primarily attributable to increases in payroll and payroll related expenses of $30,000 and product
demonstration costs of $19,000. These increases were offset by decreases in third party sales support and outside commissions of
$5,000, bid and proposal costs of $13,000, outside consulting costs of $13,000 and product evaluation costs of $7,000 for the period.
 
Product Development Costs
 
Product development costs for the quarter ended December 28, 2019
were $205,000, compared to $107,000 for the quarter ended December 29, 2018. This increase of $98,000, or 91%, was attributable
to a decrease in billable engineering services contracts during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 that resulted in increased product
development costs of $383,000. These increased costs were partially offset by a decrease in engineering project costs of $204,000
and payroll and payroll related expenses of $73,000 during the period.
 
The Company actively sells its engineering services in support of
funded research and development. The receipt of these orders is sporadic, although such programs can span over several months.
In addition to these programs, the Company also invests in research and development to enhance its existing products or to develop
new products, as it deems appropriate. There was approximately $409,000 of billable engineering services revenue generated during
the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and $990,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
 


Page 12


 
Product development costs are charged to billable engineering services,
bid and proposal efforts or business development activities, as appropriate. Product development costs charged to billable projects
are recorded as cost of revenue; engineering costs charged to bid and proposal efforts are recorded as selling expenses; and product
development costs charged to business development activities are recorded as marketing expenses.
 
Net Loss
 
The Company generated a net loss of $480,000 for the first quarter
of fiscal 2020, compared to a net loss of $248,000 for the same period of fiscal 2019. This increase in net loss is primarily attributable
to a 23% decrease in gross profit and an increase in operating expenses of 21% during the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
Our cash and cash equivalents at December
28, 2019 totaled $748,000 and we continue to have no debt.
 
Liquidity and
Ability to Continue as a Going Concern
 
The Company has suffered recurring losses
from operations and had an accumulated deficit of $2,635,000 at December 28, 2019. These factors raise substantial doubt about
the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern within one year from the issuance date of the unaudited consolidated
financial statements included in this Quarterly Report. The unaudited consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments
to reflect the substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
 
We
anticipate that our principal sources of liquidity will only be sufficient to fund our activities to December 2020. In order to
have sufficient cash to fund our operations beyond that point, we will need to secure new customer contracts, raise additional
equity or debt capital and/or reduce expenses, including payroll and payroll-related expenses. 
 
In
order to have sufficient capital resources to fund operations, the Company has been working diligently to secure several large
orders with new and existing customers. We are also pursuing raising capital. Although we believe our ability to secure such new
business or raise new capital is likely, we cannot provide assurances we will be able to do so. Should we be unsuccessful in these
efforts, we would be forced to implement headcount reductions, employee furloughs and/or reduced hours for certain employees or
cease operations completely.
 
Sources and Uses of Cash 
 
The following table presents our abbreviated
cash flows for the three month periods ended (unaudited):
 

 
 


Page 13


 
Company Facilities
 
On April 1, 2014, the Company entered into
a new lease for its current facilities. This lease is for 22,800 square feet located at 100 Domino Drive, Concord, MA. The Company
has been a tenant in this space since 1983. This is the Company’s only facility and houses all manufacturing, research and
development, and corporate operations. The initial term of the lease was for five years through March 31, 2019 at an annual rate
of $171,000. In addition, the lease contains options to extend the lease for two and one-half years through September 30, 2021
and another two and one-half years through March 31, 2024 at an annual rate of $171,000. In September 2018, the Company exercised
its option to extend the term of the lease through September 2021. The lease expense for each of the three month periods ended
December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 was $43,000.
 
Backlog
 
Backlog at December 28, 2019 and September 28, 2019 amounted to
$1,015,000 and $1,154,000, respectively. The orders in backlog at December 28, 2019 are expected to ship and/or services are expected
to be performed over the next nine months depending on customer requirements and product availability.
 
Performance guaranties
 
Certain foreign customers require the Company
to guarantee bid bonds and performance of products sold. These guaranties typically take the form of standby letters of credit.
Guaranties are generally required in amounts of 5% to 10% of the purchase price and last in duration from three months to one year.
At December 28, 2019 and September 28, 2019, the Company had no outstanding letters of credit.
 
Research and development
 
Research and development efforts are undertaken by the Company primarily
on its own initiative. In order to compete successfully, the Company must improve existing products and develop new products, as
well as attract and retain qualified personnel. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to hire and train such
technical management and sales personnel or successfully improve and develop its products.
 
During the three month periods ended December 28, 2019 and December
29, 2018 the Company spent $205,000 and $107,000, respectively, on internal product development. The Company also spent $236,000
and $628,000, respectively, on billable development efforts during the first three months of fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively.
The Company’s total product development costs during the first three months of fiscal 2020 were 40% lower than the same period
in fiscal 2019 but in line with its planned commitment to research and development, and reflected the costs of custom development,
product capability enhancements and production readiness. It is expected that total product development expenses will remain lower
until we secure a new billable research and development contract.
 
It is anticipated that cash from operations
will fund our near-term research and development and marketing activities. We also believe that, in the long term, based on current
billable activities, cash from operations will be sufficient to meet the development goals of the Company, although we can give
no assurances. Any increase in development activities - either billable or new product related - will require additional resources,
which we may not be able to fund through cash from operations. In circumstances where resources will be insufficient, the Company
will look to other sources of financing, including debt and/or equity investments; however, we can provide no guarantees that we
will be successful in securing such additional financing.
 
Other than those stated above, there are no
plans for significant internal product development or material commitments for capital expenditures during the remainder of fiscal
2020.
 
New Accounting Pronouncements 
 
ASU
No. 2016-02, Leases
 
In February 2016, the FASB
issued guidance under ASU No. 2016-02, Leases, with respect to leases. This ASU requires an entity to recognize right-of-use
assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. This guidance offers
specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions. Lessees and lessors are required to disclose
qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the
amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. This guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning
after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that reporting period, and requires a modified retrospective adoption.
The new guidance was effective for the Company beginning September 29, 2019. The adoption of this standard required the Company
to recognize a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability associated with the operating lease on its facilities at
100 Domino Drive, Concord, MA in the amount of $767,712 at September 29, 2019.
 


Page 14


 
Other
recent accounting pronouncements were issued by the FASB (including its Emerging Issues Task Force) and the SEC during the first
three months of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year but such pronouncements are not believed by management to have a material
impact on the Company’s present or future financial statements.
 
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 
The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.
 



Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

 
Not applicable.
 



Item 4.
Controls and Procedures

 
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures. The Company’s
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have reviewed and evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Based on that
review and evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure
controls and procedures were not effective as of December 28, 2019 as a result of the material weaknesses in our internal control
over financial reporting discussed below.
  
As previously disclosed under Item 9A, Controls and Procedures
in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2019, as well as prior fiscal years, management had concluded
that the Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting due to material weaknesses in such internal
control related to the misapplication of generally accepted accounting principles associated with revenue recognition, inventory
reserves, accruals and the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, as well as the classification and disclosure of
financial information, all caused by a lack of adequate skills and experience within the accounting department. In addition, management
also previously identified a material weakness due to a lack of sufficient staff to segregate accounting duties. During fiscal
year 2018, the Company also identified a lack of an adequately trained accounting department and an independent review of financial
reporting, as well as a material weakness in internal control over significant non-routine transactions.
 
Nonetheless, management believes that our consolidated financial
statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have certified that, based on such officer’s knowledge, the financial
statements and other financial information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company as of, and for, the periods presented in this report. In addition,
we initiated a remediation plan for the material weaknesses, described below.
 


Page 15


 
Our management, with oversight from the Audit Committee, is actively
engaged in remediating the identified material weaknesses. As part of these remediation efforts management has undertaken education
and training for TCC’s accounting staff and management to address certain core competencies that resulted in the lack of
operational effectiveness. Management will continue to assess the design of controls to determine if enhancements are needed to
increase effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Management has retained a subject matter expert in the
area of income tax accounting and is assessing the need to retain additional subject matter experts to ensure compliance with generally
accepted accounting principles and SEC rules and regulations. Both management and the Audit Committee have increased their oversight
of non-routine transactions. This includes oversight of large revenue contracts as well as judgement areas, including inventory
reserves and accruals. This oversight will contribute to the assessment of the need to retain additional subject matter experts.
 
The Company continues to make significant progress in improving
its internal control over financial reporting but these remediation efforts are ongoing; the Company’s goal is to have all
material weaknesses remediated by the end of its 2020 fiscal year.
  
Changes in internal control over financial reporting. The
changes in the aforementioned internal control over financial reporting and the remediation efforts undertaken as of year-end and
undertaken in the first quarter of TCC’s fiscal 2020 have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect,
our internal control over financial reporting. No other changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
occurred during the first quarter of its 2020 fiscal year.
 
 
 
 
 


Page 16



 
PART II. Other Information
 



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings

 
There were no legal proceedings pending against or involving
the Company or its subsidiary during the period covered by this quarterly report.
 



Item 1A.
Risk Factors

 
Not applicable.
 



Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

 
Not applicable.
 



Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities

 
Not applicable.
 



Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures

 
Not applicable.
 



Item 5.
Other Information

 
Not applicable.
 



Item 6.
Exhibits

 

 
 


Page 17


 

SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 


 
 
 
TECHNICAL COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
 

 
 
 
(Registrant)
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

February 11, 2020
 
 
 
By: 
/s/ Carl H. Guild, Jr.
 

Date
 
 
 
 
Carl H. Guild, Jr., President and Chief
 

 
 
 
 
 
Executive Officer
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

February 11, 2020
 
 
 
By: 
/s/ Michael P. Malone
 

Date
 
 
 
 
Michael P. Malone, Chief Financial Officer
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 18
 



