
10-Q
1
poci_10q-12312019.htm
FORM 10-Q







Table of Contents
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-Q
 
☒ 
QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the quarterly period ended December
31, 2019
 
or
 
☐ 
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the transition period from                     
to                     
 
Commission File Number: 001-10647
 
PRECISION OPTICS CORPORATION, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter)
 


Massachusetts
04-2795294

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

 
22 East Broadway, Gardner, Massachusetts
01440-3338
(Address of principal executive offices)
(Zip Code)
 
(978) 630-1800
(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(b) of the Act: None.
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(g) of the Act:


Title of each class
Trading symbol(s)
Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $0.01 par value
PEYE
OTCQB

  
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☒ No ☐
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes ☒ No ☐
   
Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company,
or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller
reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 


Large accelerated filer
☐
 
Accelerated filer
☐

 
 
 
 
 

Non-accelerated filer
☒
 
Smaller reporting company
☒

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Emerging growth company
☐

 
 
If
an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for
complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ☐ No ☒
   
The number of shares
outstanding of the issuer’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, at February 13, 2020 was 12,880,047 shares.
 
 
 


   
 

 
PRECISION OPTICS CORPORATION, INC.
 
Table of Contents
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 2 
 

 
PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION
  
Item 1. Financial Statements.
   
PRECISION OPTICS CORPORATION, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 

 
  
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these consolidated interim financial statements.
 
 


 3 
 

 
PRECISION OPTICS CORPORATION, INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
FOR THE THREE AND SIX MONTHS ENDED
December
31, 2019 AND 2018
(UNAUDITED)
 
 

 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these consolidated interim financial statements.
 
 


 4 
 

 
PRECISION OPTICS CORPORATION, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY
FOR THE THREE AND SIX MONTHS ENDED
December
31, 2019 AND 2018
(UNAUDITED)
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these consolidated interim financial statements.
 
 


 5 
 

 
PRECISION OPTICS CORPORATION, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED
December
31, 2019 AND 2018
(UNAUDITED)
 
 

 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these consolidated interim financial statements.
 
 
 


 6 
 

 
PRECISION OPTICS CORPORATION, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED INTERIM FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
 


1.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

 
Principles of Consolidation and Operations
 
The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Precision Optics Corporation, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (the “Company”).
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
These consolidated financial statements
have been prepared by the Company, without audit, and reflect normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management,
are necessary for a fair statement of the results of the second quarter and six months of the Company’s fiscal year 2020.
These consolidated financial statements do not include all disclosures associated with annual consolidated financial statements
and, accordingly, should be read in conjunction with footnotes contained in the Company’s consolidated financial statements
for the year ended June 30, 2019, together with the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm filed under cover
of the Company’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 26,
2019.
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of these consolidated financial
statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues
and expenses. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets
and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different
assumptions or conditions.
 
Income (Loss) Per Share
 
Basic income (loss) per share is computed
by dividing net income or net loss by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted
income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income or net loss by the weighted average number of shares of common stock
outstanding during the period, plus the number of potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period such as stock options
and warrants. For the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the effect of such securities was antidilutive and
not included in the diluted calculation because of the net loss generated in these periods.
 
The following is the calculation of loss per share for the three
and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:
 

 
The number of shares issuable upon the
exercise of outstanding stock options that were excluded from the computation as their effect was antidilutive was approximately
2,047,800 and 1,493,200 for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
   
 
 


 7 
 

 
Income Taxes
 
Income taxes are accounted for under the
asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases
and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected
to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect
on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment
date.
  
In assessing the likelihood of utilization
of existing deferred tax assets, management has considered historical results of operations and the current operating environment.
Based on this evaluation, a full valuation reserve has been provided for the deferred tax assets.
 
Goodwill and Patents
 
Long-lived assets such as goodwill and
patents are capitalized when acquired and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
book value of the asset may not be recoverable. Impairment of the carrying value of long-lived assets such as goodwill and patents
would be indicated if the best estimate of future undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset grouping is less
than its carrying value. If an impairment is indicated, any loss is measured as the difference between estimated fair value and
carrying value and is recognized in operating income or loss. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying
amount or fair value less costs to sell. No such impairments of goodwill or patents have been estimated by management as of December
31, 2019.
 
Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted
 
On July 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Refer to Note 5 for further information.
 
On July 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU
2016-02, Topic 842 – Leases. Refer to Note 3 for further information.
  


2.
INVENTORIES

 
Inventories are stated at the lower of
cost (first-in, first-out) or market and consisted of the following:
 

 


3.
LEASE OBLIGATION

 
The Company entered into a five-year capital lease obligation
in January 2016 for the acquisition of manufacturing equipment totaling $51,252.
 
 
 


 8 
 

 
In February 2016, FASB issued ASU 2016-02,
“Leases” (Topic 842). ASU 2016-02 requires the recognition of lease asset and lease liabilities by lessees for those
leases currently classified as operating leases with terms greater than twelve months and make certain changes to the accounting
for lease expenses. The Company adopted this standard effective July 1, 2019 and has reflected its impact upon the El Paso, Texas
facility operating lease entered into on July 1, 2019 in connection with the Ross Optical acquisition. The facility lease is a
three-year operating lease obligation with total remaining minimum lease payments of $154,981 at December 31, 2019. Total rent
expense including base rent and common area expenses were $15,190 and $30,381 during the three and six months ended December 31,
2019, respectively. Included in the accompanying balance sheet at December 31, 2019 is a right-of-use  asset of $145,428 and
current and long-term right-of-use operating lease liabilities of $55,247 and $90,181, respectively.
 
At December 31, 2019, future minimum lease payments under the
capital lease and operating lease obligations are as follows:
 

 

4.STOCK-BASED
                                         COMPENSATION

 
The following table summarizes stock-based
compensation expense for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:
 

  
No compensation has been capitalized because
such amounts would have been immaterial.
   
The following tables summarize stock option
activity for the six months ended December 31, 2019:
 

  
 
 


 9 
 

 
Information related to the stock options
outstanding as of December 31, 2019 is as follows:
 

 
The aggregate intrinsic value of the Company’s
“in-the-money” outstanding and exercisable options as of December 31, 2019 was $1,770,050 and $1,493,050, respectively.
 
Common Stock Award
 
On August 2, 2018, the Company awarded
its Chief Executive Officer 300,000 shares of common stock for services performed through June 30, 2018. As of December 31, 2019,
200,000 shares have been issued. The fair market value of the 300,000 shares on the award date equal to $210,000 has been recorded
as general and administrative stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2018.
  


5.
REVENUE RECOGNITION

 
On July 1, 2018, the Company adopted
ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) using the modified retrospective method for contracts that were not
completed as of July 1, 2018, whereby revenues are recognized as the performance obligations to deliver products or services are
satisfied and are recorded based on the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for satisfying the performance
obligations. Most of the Company’s products and services are marketed to medical device companies almost exclusively in the
United States. Products and services are primarily transferred to customers at a point in time based upon when services are performed
or product is shipped.
 
Revenues represent the amount of consideration
the Company expects to receive from customers in exchange for transferring products and services. Other selling costs to obtain
and fulfill contracts are expensed as incurred due to the short-term nature of a majority of its revenues. The Company extends
terms of payment to its customers based on commercially reasonable terms for the markets of its customers, while also considering
their credit quality. Shipping and handling costs charged to customers are included in revenues.
 
 
 


 10 
 

 
The Company disaggregates revenues by product
and service types as it believes it best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows are
affected by economic factors. Revenues are comprised of the following for the three and six months ended December 31, 2019 and
2018:
 

 
Contract Assets and Liabilities
 
The nature of the Company’s products
and services does not generally give rise to contract assets as it typically does not incur costs to fulfill a contract before
a product or service is provided to a customer. The Company’s costs to obtain contracts are typically in the form of sales
commissions paid to employees. The Company has elected to expense sales commissions associated with obtaining a contract as incurred
as the amortization period is generally less than one year. These costs have been recorded in selling, general and administrative
expenses. As of December 31, 2019, there were no contract assets recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
The Company’s contract liabilities
arise as a result of unearned revenue received from customers at inception of contracts or where the timing of billing for services
precedes satisfaction of our performance obligations. The Company generally satisfies performance obligations within one year from
the contract inception date.
 
Contract liabilities, which were recorded
as customer advances in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets, and unearned revenue are comprised of the following:
 

 


6.
BUSINESS ACQUISITION

 
On July 1, 2019 the Company acquired the
operating assets of Ross Optical Industries, Inc. of El Paso, Texas, a supplier of custom and catalogue optical components sourced
through an extensive network of worldwide specialized vendors and sold for industrial, military and medical applications. The acquisition
had an effective date of June 1, 2019. All of Ross’ results of operations are included in our financial statements for the
three and six month periods ended December 31, 2019.
 
 
 


 11 
 

 
Consolidated unaudited actual and pro forma
results of operations for the Company are presented below assuming that the acquisition of the Ross Optical division had occurred
on July 1, 2018. Pro forma operating results include net adjustments resulting from the acquisition transaction.
 

 
Pro forma financial information is not
necessarily indicative of the Company’s actual results of operations if the acquisition had been completed at the date indicated,
nor is it necessarily an indication of future operating results. Amounts do not include any operating efficiencies or cost saving
that the Company believes may become achievable over time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 12 
 

 
Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.
 
The following discussion of our financial
condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements
and notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2019
and with our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2019 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K,
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 26, 2019.
 
This Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements. When used in this report, the words “anticipate,”
“suggest,” “estimate,” “plan,” “project,” “continue,”
“ongoing,” “potential,” “expect,” “predict,” “believe,”
“intend,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would”
and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking
statements for many reasons, including the risks described in this report, the risks described in our Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended June 30, 2019 and other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although we
believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, they
relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We do not intend to update any of the
forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our
expectations, except as required by law.
 
Overview
 
We have been a developer and manufacturer
of advanced optical instruments since 1982. Our medical instrumentation line includes traditional endoscopes and endocouplers as
well as other custom imaging and illumination products for use in minimally invasive surgical procedures. Much of our recent development
efforts have been targeted at the development of next generation endoscopes. For the last ten years, we have funded internal research
and development programs to develop next generation capabilities for designing and manufacturing 3D endoscopes and very small Microprecision™
lenses, anticipating future requirements as the surgical community continues to demand smaller and more enhanced imaging systems
for minimally invasive surgery. 
 
Effective June 1, 2019 we acquired the
operating assets of Ross Optical Industries, Inc. of El Paso, Texas, which we began operating as a division of our Company beginning
on that date. The accompanying financial statements include the results of operations of the Ross Optical division for the entire
six and three-month periods ended December 31, 2019 and the assets and liabilities of the division as of June 30, 2019 and December
31, 2019. The acquisition of the assets of Ross Optical Industries effective June 1, 2019 expands our optics components and assemblies
business. All products supplied by Ross Optical include a custom or catalog optic, which is sourced through Ross Optical’s
extensive domestic and worldwide network of optical fabrication companies. Most systems make use of optical lenses, prisms, mirrors
and windows and range from individual optical components to complex mechano-optical assemblies. Products often include thin film
optical coatings that are applied using the in-house coating department. Approximately 76% of Ross Optical revenues are from customers
in the United States, 8% from Western Europe and 5% from Canada during the six months ended December 31, 2019. Ross Optical’s
sales are mostly resale of specialized optical components with the remainder being assemblies. Ross Optical does not perform revenue
generating engineering services or internal research and development. The majority of Ross Optical sales are for industrial applications
with the remainder split between military and medical device products.
 
The Management Discussion and Analysis
which follows is based on the financial condition and results of operations of our Company including the operating results for
the six and three month periods ended December 31, 2019 and the balance sheet as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2019 of our
new division Ross Optical.
 
Our business is the design and manufacture
of high-quality medical devices. Approximately 12% of our revenue in the six months ended December 31, 2019 is from the design,
manufacture and resale of optical products for military and defense and 29% is from other industrial, non-medical products. Our
medical instrumentation line and unique design and manufacturing capabilities include traditional endoscopes and endocouplers as
well as other custom imaging and illumination products for use in minimally invasive surgical procedures. We design and manufacture
3D endoscopes and very small Microprecision™ lenses, assemblies and complete medical devices to meet the surgical community’s
continuing demand for smaller, disposable, and more enhanced imaging systems for minimally invasive surgery. 
 
 
 


 13 
 

 
We are registered to the ISO 9001:2015
and ISO 13485:2016 Quality Standards and comply with the FDA Good Manufacturing Practices and the European Union Medical Device
Directive for CE marking of our medical products. Our internet website is www.poci.com. Information on our website is not intended
to be integrated into this report.
 
The markets in which we do business are
highly competitive and include both foreign and domestic competitors. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially
greater resources than we do. Furthermore, other domestic or foreign companies, some with greater financial resources than we have,
may seek to produce products or services that compete with ours. We routinely outsource specialized production efforts as required
to obtain the most cost effective production. Over the years and through the acquisition of the Ross Optical division in June 2019,
we have developed extensive experience collaborating with other optical specialists worldwide.
  
We believe that our future success depends
to a large degree on our ability to develop new optical products and services to enhance the performance characteristics and methods
of manufacture of existing products. Accordingly, we expect to continue to seek and obtain product-related design and development
contracts with customers and to selectively invest our own funds on research and development, particularly in the areas of Microprecision™
optics, micro medical cameras, illumination, and 3D endoscopes.
 
The Ross Optical division sales are primarily
optical components and assemblies for industrial applications in addition to medical and military uses. By combining the unique
capabilities of our Company with the Ross Optical division we believe there are opportunities for expanded sales of each division
products and services throughout the combined customer base. Additionally, we believe Ross’ expanded worldwide vendor relationships
will benefit our traditional efforts to source materials at competitive prices for our development projects and manufacturing activities.
   
For the six months ended December 31, 2019,
approximately 24% of our sales were made to our three largest customers and no customer, including these three, made up more than
10% of our total sales. Our three largest customers during the quarter ended December 31, 2019 are in the defense and medical device
industries. One represents engineering service revenue for an established defense contractor, and the other two represent production
revenue for companies commercializing a cardiovascular endoscope and an ENT scanning device. Each of these three products incorporates
our Microprecision™ technologies as enabling design features. In addition to the three largest customers, we made sales
to two hundred thirty-eight other customers during the six month period ended December 31, 2019. 
 
Current sales and marketing activities
are intended to broaden awareness of the benefits of our new technology platforms and our successful application of these new technologies
to medical device projects requiring surgery-grade visualization from sub-millimeter sized devices and 3D endoscopy, including
disposable products and assemblies. We market directly to established medical device companies primarily in the United States that
we believe could benefit from our advanced endoscopy visualization systems. Through this direct marketing, referrals, attendance
at trade shows and a presence in online professional association websites, we have expanded our on-going pipeline of projects to
significant medical device companies as well as well-funded emerging technology companies. We expect our customer pipeline to continue
to expand as development projects transition to production orders and new customer projects enter the development phase. Our Ross
Optical division markets through existing customers and trade shows, in addition to proactive online marketing strategies executed
primarily through its website. We believe there are opportunities to expand the reach of sales activities of our business and that
of our new division, Ross Optical, through the gradual integration of some of the sales and marketing resources of the two operations.
 
General
 
This management’s discussion and
analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our unaudited consolidated financial statements, which
have been prepared without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The preparation
of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed
to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of
assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different
assumptions or conditions.
 
 
 


 14 
 

 
There have been no significant changes
in our critical accounting policies as disclosed in the Notes to our Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended June 30, 2019 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 26, 2019.
 
Results of Operations
 
Our total revenues for the quarter ended
December 31, 2019, were $2,796,762, as compared to $1,477,851 for the same period in the prior year, an increase of $1,318,911,
or 89.2%. Revenues increased during the quarter ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same quarter of the prior year primarily
due to the revenues of the Ross Optical division, which were $1,150,844 for the quarter ended December 31, 2019. Our non-Ross revenues
increased $168,067 during the quarter ended December 31, 2019 from their levels in the same period of the prior year. The mix of
engineering service, production and component sales were consistent between the quarters and changes were considered the result
of customary fluctuations within and between the various products during the quarters.
 
Our total revenues for the six months ended
December 31, 2019 were $5,311,746, as compared to $3,037,309 for the same period in the prior year, an increase of $2,274,437,
or 74.9%. Revenues increased during the six months ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period of the prior year primarily
due to the revenues of the Ross Optical division, which were $2,241,688 for the six months ended December 31, 2019. Our non-Ross
revenues increased $32,769 during the six months ended December 31, 2019 from their levels in the same period of the prior year.
The mix of engineering service, production and component sales were consistent between the quarters and changes were considered
the result of customary fluctuations within and between the various products during the quarters.
    
Gross profit for the quarter ended December
31, 2019 was $917,939, compared to $355,722 for the same period in the prior year, reflecting an increase of $562,217, or 158%.
Gross profit for the quarter ended December 31, 2019 as a percentage of our revenues was 32.8%, an increase from the gross profit
percentage of 24.1% for the same period in the prior year. Gross profit for the six months ended December 31, 2019 was $1,892,056,
as compared to $818,229 for the same period in the prior year, which reflects an increase of $1,073,827 or 131.2%. Gross profit for
the six months ended December 31, 2019 as a percentage of our revenues was 35.6%, an increase from the gross profit percentage
of 26.9% for the same period in the prior year. Quarterly gross profit and gross profit percentage depend on a number of factors,
including overall sales volume, facility utilization, product sales mix, the costs of engineering services, and production start-up
costs and challenges in connection with new products.
 
The increase in gross profit dollars and
gross profit percentage during the quarter and six month period ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same periods of the prior
year is primarily due to the inclusion of the Ross Optical division revenue at a higher gross margin percentage than we realize
on non-Ross revenues. Ross Optical division revenues generated a gross margin percentage of 48-50% while non-Ross revenue margin
was 26.4% for the six months ended December 31, 2019. The non-Ross gross margin is dependent on a number of factors and is expected
to fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the nature and status of engineering projects. Specifically, periodic margins are
impacted by revenue volume, facility utilization, product sales mix, and unanticipated cost over-runs associated with engineering
projects and start-up production activities of new products. During the quarter ended December 31, 2019 two non-Ross engineering
service projects experienced cost over-runs that negatively impacted gross margins during the period. The two projects collectively
represented 18% of total revenue and negatively impacted the gross margin percentage by 6.5% during the quarter ended December
31, 2019. The cost over-runs in each of these cases resulted from design challenges and issues we are addressing and that we believe
will only cause a temporary decrease in total realized gross margins. The remainder of our production and engineering jobs resulted
in margins within our targeted range with reasonably expected fluctuations.
 
Research and development expenses were
$228,576 for the quarter ended December 31, 2019, compared to $125,413 for the same period in the prior year, an increase of $103,163,
or 82%. Research and development expenses were $380,730 for the six months ended December 31, 2019, compared to $226,211 for
the same period in the prior year, an increase of $154,519, or 68%. In-house research and development and certain internal functions
not directly related to customer engagements are classified as research and development expenses with the majority of our engineering,
research and development activities being consumed in revenue generating engagements with our customers for the development of
their products. During the quarter ended December 31, 2019 we had a larger staff of engineering personnel and a greater amount
of our engineering personnel time was consumed in internal research and development activities; the product of which we believe
will benefit various engineering design projects involving specialized fixturing and illumination features.
 
 
 


 15 
 

 
Selling, general and administrative
expenses were $2,148,806 for the six months ended December 31, 2019, compared to $1,016,405 for the same period in the
prior year, an increase of $1,132,401, or 111%. The increase in the six months ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same
quarter of the prior fiscal year was primarily due to the addition of $598,078 of selling, general and administrative
expenses incurred by our Ross Optical division. Non-Ross selling, general and administrative expenses reflect a $42,999
increase in stock-based compensation and service fees in the six months ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period
of the prior year, and a $491,322 increase in compensation to existing and newly hired employees.
 
Selling, general and administrative
expenses were $1,240,961 for the quarter ended December 31, 2019, compared to $355,916 for the same period in the prior year,
an increase of $885,045, or 249%. The increase in the quarter ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same quarter of the
prior fiscal year was primarily due to the addition of $325,987 of selling, general and administrative expenses incurred by
our Ross Optical division. Non-Ross selling, general and administrative expenses reflect a $264,478 increase in stock-based
compensation and service fees in the quarter ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period of the prior year, and a
$294,581 increase in compensation to existing and newly hired employees.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
We have sustained recurring net losses
for several years. During the year ended June 30, 2019 and the six months ended December 31, 2019 we incurred net losses of $614,871
and $636,935, respectively. As a result of our acquisition of the Ross Optical division, our revenue, gross margin and components
of our working capital have increased. At December 31, 2019 cash was $347,858, accounts receivables were $2,000,048 and current
liabilities were $2,021,535, including $388,506 of customer advances received for future order deliveries.
 
Although our financial performance has
improved during the last few fiscal quarters, our operating expenses have also increased and we continue to experience pricing
pressure from our customers and challenges in engineering projects and production orders that result in cost over-runs and depressed
gross margins. Consequently, critical to our ability to maintain our financial condition is achieving and maintaining a level of
quarterly revenues that generate break even or better financial performance as well as timely collection of accounts receivable
from our customers. We believe profitable operating results can be achieved through a combination of revenue levels, realized gross
margins and controlling operating expense increases, all of which are subject to periodic fluctuations resulting from sales mix
and the stage of completion of varying engineering service projects as they progress towards and into production level revenues.
 
We have traditionally funded working capital
needs through product sales, management of working capital components of our business, cash received from public and private offerings
of our common stock, warrants to purchase shares of our common stock or convertible notes, and by customer advances paid against
purchase orders and recorded in the current liabilities section of the accompanying financial statements. Our management believes
that the opportunities represented by our current production projects and engineering pipeline of Microprecision™ optical
elements, micro medical camera assemblies and 3D endoscope projects have the potential to generate increasing revenues and profitable
financial results.
 
Capital equipment expenditures and additional
patent costs during the six months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were $56,914 and $76,184, respectively. Future capital equipment
expenditures will be dependent upon the type and amount of future sales revenue and the needs of on-going research and development
efforts.
 
We have contractual cash commitments related
to open purchase orders as of December 31, 2019 of approximately $976,440, plus a $9,835 commitment remaining under a five-year
capital lease obligation for the acquisition of equipment and $145,428 commitment remaining under a three-year facility lease relating
the Ross Optical division in El Paso, Texas (see Note 3. Lease Obligations). We have no other contractual cash commitments since
leased facilities are currently on a month-to-month basis.
  
 
 


 16 
 

 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 
We currently have no off-balance sheet
arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes
in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.
 
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk.
 
As a smaller reporting company, as defined
by Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act and in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K, we are electing scaled disclosure reporting
obligations and therefore are not required to provide the information requested by this Item.
  
Item 4. Controls and Procedures.
 
Management’s Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
Procedures
 
Our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief
Financial Officer evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by
this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures, including internal control over financial reporting, were not effective
as of December 13, 2019, to ensure the information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (i) is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in Securities
and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and (ii) is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our disclosure
controls and procedures are intended to be designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated
to our management. Based on this evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not
effective as of December 31, 2019.
 
The following is a description of two material
weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting:
 
Segregation of Duties: As previously
disclosed in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008-2019, our management identified a control
deficiency during the 2008 fiscal year because we lacked sufficient staff to segregate accounting duties. We believe the control
deficiency resulted primarily because we have the equivalent of one and one-half persons performing all accounting-related on-site
duties. As a result, we did not maintain adequate segregation of duties within our critical financial reporting applications, the
related modules and financial reporting processes. This control deficiency could result in a misstatement of balance sheet and
income statement accounts in our interim or annual consolidated financial statements that would not be detected. Accordingly, management
has determined that this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness. During the period beginning with fiscal year 2008
through June 30, 2019, no audit adjustments resulting from this condition were required.
 
To address and remediate the material weakness
in internal control over financial reporting described above, beginning with the quarter ended September 30, 2008, we instituted
a procedure whereby our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our Board of Directors perform
a higher level review of the quarterly and annual reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K prior to filing.
 
We believe that the step outlined above
strengthens our internal control over financial reporting and mitigates the material weakness described above. As part of our assessment
of internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, our management has evaluated this additional
control and has determined that it is operating effectively.
 
Inventory Valuation: As previously
disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, we reported a material weakness with respect
to the valuation of our inventories. Specifically, the amounts used to value our inventory at June 30, 2009 with respect to overhead
rates and purchased items were often inconsistent with the supporting documentation, due to year-to-year changes in overhead rates
and costs of purchased items that were not properly reflected in inventory valuation. Accordingly, management had determined that
this control deficiency constituted a material weakness as of June 30, 2009. Periodic fiscal year end audit adjustments of approximately
$50,000 have been necessary as a result of this condition.
  
 
 


 17 
 

 
Changes in Internal Control over
Financial Reporting
 
There was no change in our internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the second quarter of our fiscal year covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
 
To address and remediate the material weakness
in internal control over financial reporting described above, beginning in the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and continuing
through the quarter ended December 31, 2019, we implemented processes to improve our inventory controls and documentation surrounding
inventory valuation for overhead rates, and performed procedures to ensure that the pricing of inventory items was consistent with
the supporting documentation. We believe that the step outlined above strengthens our internal control over financial reporting
and mitigates the material weakness described above.
 
We intend to continue to remediate material
weaknesses and enhance our internal controls but cannot guarantee that our efforts will result in remediation of our material weaknesses
or that new issues will not be exposed in this process.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 18 
 

 
PART II. OTHER INFORMATION
 
Item 1. Legal Proceedings.
 
Our Company, on occasion, may be involved
in legal matters arising in the ordinary course of our business. While management believes that such matters are currently
insignificant, matters arising in the ordinary course of business for which we are or could become involved in litigation may have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are not aware of any pending or
threatened litigation against us or our officers and directors in their capacity as such that could have a material impact on our
operations or finances.
 
Item 1A. Risk Factors.
 
Other than as described below, there have
been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 2019, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 26, 2019.
 
We depend on the availability of
certain key supplies and services that are available from only a few sources and we may experience difficulty with certain suppliers
due to the recent coronavirus outbreak in China and we may have difficulty finding alternative sources of these supplies or services.
 
We source certain key supplies to develop
and manufacture our products, particularly our precision grade optical glass, which is available from only a few sources, in China.
Due to the recent coronavirus outbreak in China in December 2019, we may experience difficulties with certain suppliers. Our business
could be affected if we become unable to procure these essential materials and services in adequate quantities and at acceptable
prices. We are always evaluating our suppliers and alternative sources. If we experience a shortage of certain supplies and are
unable to find an alternative source, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.   
 
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity
Securities and Use of Proceeds.
 
We did not issue unregistered securities
during the quarter ended December 31, 2019.
 
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
 
Not applicable.
 
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.
 
Not applicable.
 
Item 5. Other Information.
 
None.
  
 
 
 

 19 
 

 
Item 6. Exhibits.

 
 
 
 


 20 
 

 

 

 


*
Filed herewith.

 


†
 
Certain portions of the agreement have been omitted to preserve the confidentiality of such information. The Company will furnish copies of any such information to the SEC upon request.

 


+
 
The schedules to agreement have been omitted from this filing pursuant to Item 601(a)(5) of Regulation S-K.  The Company will furnish copies of any such schedules to the SEC upon request.

 
Copies of above exhibits not contained
herein are available to any stockholder, upon written request to: Chief Financial Officer, Precision Optics Corporation, Inc.,
22 East Broadway, Gardner, MA 01440.
 
 
 

 21 
 

 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


 
PRECISION OPTICS CORPORATION, INC.

 
 
 

Date: February 13, 2020
By:
/s/ Joseph N. Forkey

 
 
Joseph N. Forkey

 
 

Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)

 
 
 

 
 
 

Date: February 13, 2020
By:
/s/ Daniel S. Habhegger

 
 
Daniel S. Habhegger

 
 

Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting
        Officer)

 
 
 
 
 

 22 







