
10-Q
1
tm201904d1_10q.htm
FORM 10-Q


 

 
 

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-Q
 
x
QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the quarterly period ended November
30, 2019, or
 
¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from _______ to
_______
 
Commission File No. 000-14311
 
EACO CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter)
 


Florida
59-2597349

(State of Incorporation)
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

 
1500 NORTH LAKEVIEW LOOP
ANAHEIM, CALIFORNIA  92807
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
 
(714) 876-2490
(Registrant’s Telephone No.)
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
of the Act: None
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(g) of the Act:
Common Stock, $0.01 Par Value

(Title of Class)
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant:
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes x
No ¨
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
electronically, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405
of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).
Yes x
No ¨
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth
company.  See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer”, “emerging
growth company”, and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 


Large accelerated filer  o    
Accelerated filer  o
Non-accelerated filer  x

Smaller reporting company  x
Emerging growth company  o
 

 
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the
registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards
provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).   
Yes ¨ No x
 
As of January 9, 2020, 4,861,590 shares
of the registrant’s common stock were outstanding.
 

 
 


 
 

 
PART I
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Item 1. Financial Statements
 
EACO Corporation and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands, except for share and per
share information)
(Unaudited)
 

 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements.
 


2
 

 
EACO Corporation and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
Income
(in thousands)
(Unaudited)
 

 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements.
 


3
 

 
EACO Corporation and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands, except share information)
(Unaudited)
 

 

 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements.
 


4
 

 
EACO Corporation and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Shareholders’
Equity
(in thousands, except share information)
(Unaudited)
 

 

 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements.
 


5
 

 
EACO Corporation and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows
(in thousands)
(Unaudited)
 

 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements.
 


6
 

 
EACO CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
November 30, 2019
 
Note 1. Organization and Basis of Presentation 
 
EACO Corporation (“EACO”), incorporated in Florida
in September 1985, is a holding company primarily comprised of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Bisco Industries, Inc. (“Bisco”).
Bisco was incorporated in Illinois in 1974 and is a distributor of electronic components and fasteners with 49 sales offices and
seven distribution centers located throughout the United States and Canada. Bisco supplies parts used in the manufacture of products
in a broad range of industries, including the aerospace, circuit board, communication, computer, fabrication, instrumentation,
industrial equipment and marine industries.
 
Note 2.	Significant Accounting Policies and Significant
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.  These estimates
include allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, slow moving and obsolete inventory, recoverability of the carrying value and
estimated useful lives of long-lived assets, and the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, if any.  Actual
results could differ from those estimates.
 
Basis of Presentation 
 
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial
statements have been prepared by the Company in conformity with GAAP for interim financial information and the rules and regulations
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim reporting. In the opinion of management, all adjustments
considered necessary in order to make the financial statements not misleading have been included. 
 
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included
in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to SEC rules and regulations
for presentation of interim financial information. Therefore, the condensed consolidated interim financial statements should be
read in conjunction with the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2019 (“fiscal
2019”). The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of August 31, 2019 and related disclosures were derived from the Company’s
audited consolidated financial statements as of August 31, 2019. Operating results for the three months ended November 30,
2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for future quarterly periods or the entire fiscal year.
 
Principles of Consolidation 
 
The consolidated financial statements for all periods presented
include the accounts of EACO, its wholly-owned subsidiary, Bisco, and Bisco’s wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary, Bisco Industries
Limited (all of which are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”, “we”, “us” and
 “our”). All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents 
 
The Company considers all highly liquid investments with an
original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.
 


7
 

 
Trade Accounts Receivable, Net 
 
Trade accounts receivable are carried at original invoice amount,
less an estimate for an allowance for doubtful accounts. Management determines the allowance for doubtful accounts by identifying
probable credit losses in the Company’s accounts receivable and reviewing historical data to estimate the collectability
on items not yet specifically identified as problem accounts. Trade accounts receivable are written off when deemed uncollectible.
Recoveries of trade accounts receivable previously written off are recorded when received. A trade account receivable is considered
past due if any portion of the receivable balance is outstanding if past due more than 30 days. The Company does not charge interest
on past due balances. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $169,000 at November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019.
 
Inventories, Net
 
Inventory consists primarily of electronic fasteners and components,
and is stated at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. Cost is determined using the average cost method. Inventories
are reduced by a provision for slow moving and obsolete items of $1,568,000 and $1,527,000 at November 30, 2019 and August 31,
2019, respectively. The provision is based upon management’s review of inventories on-hand over their expected future utilization
and length of time held by the Company.
 
Short Sales of Trading Securities
 
Securities sold short represent transactions in which the Company
sells a security borrowed from the broker, which the Company is obligated to purchase and deliver back to the broker. The initial
value of the underlying borrowed security is recorded as a liability, and is adjusted to market value at each reporting period,
with unrealized appreciation or depreciation being recorded for the change in value of the open short position. The Company records
a realized gain or loss when the short position is closed. By entering into short sales, the Company bears the market risk of an
unfavorable increase in the price of the security sold short in excess of the proceeds received. The market value of open short
positions is separately presented as a liability in the consolidated balance sheets.
 
The Company is required to establish a margin account with the
lending broker equal to the market value of open short positions. As the use of such funds is restricted while the short sale is
outstanding, the balance of this account is classified as restricted cash, current in the consolidated balance sheets. The restricted
cash related to securities sold short was $2,822,000 and $655,000 at November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019, respectively.
 
Long-Lived Assets
 
Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  For purposes of the
impairment review, assets are measured by comparing the carrying amount to future net cash flows.  If assets are considered
to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds their
estimated fair values.
 
Income Taxes 
 
Deferred taxes on income result from temporary differences between
the reporting of income for financial statement and tax reporting purposes. A valuation allowance related to a deferred tax asset
is recorded when it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. In making such determination,
the Company considers all available positive and negative evidence, including, but not limited to, scheduled reversals of deferred
tax liabilities, projected future taxable income (if any), tax planning strategies and recent financial performance.   
 
We provide tax contingencies, if any, for federal, state, local
and international exposures relating to audit results, tax planning initiatives and compliance responsibilities.  The development
of these reserves requires judgments and estimates regarding tax issues, potential outcomes and timing.  Actual results could
differ from those estimates.
 


8
 

 
Revenue Recognition 
 
We derive our revenue primarily from
product sales.  We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: (1) identification of the contract with a customer;
(2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determination of the transaction price; (4) allocation of
the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance
obligation.
 
The Company's performance obligations
consist solely of product shipped to customers.  Revenue from product sales is presented as net sales and recognized upon
the transfer of control of promised products to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in
exchange for these products.  Revenue is recognized net of expected returns and any taxes collected from customers. 
We offer industry standard contractual terms in our purchase orders.
 
Earnings Per Common Share
 
Basic earnings per common share for
the three months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018 were computed based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during each respective period. Diluted earnings per share for those periods have been computed based on the weighted average number
of common shares outstanding, giving effect to all potentially dilutive common shares that were outstanding during the respective
periods (See Note 4).
 
Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions 
 
Assets and liabilities recorded in functional currencies other
than the U.S. dollar (Canadian dollars for Bisco’s Canadian subsidiary) are translated into U.S. dollars at the period-end
rate of exchange. Revenue and expenses are translated at the weighted-average exchange rates for the three months ended November
30, 2019 and 2018. The resulting translation adjustments are charged or credited directly to accumulated other comprehensive income
or loss. The average exchange rate of Canadian dollars to U.S. dollars for the three months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018 was
$0.76 for both periods.
 
Concentrations 
 
Net sales to customers outside the United States were approximately
9% of revenues for each of the three months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, and related accounts receivable were approximately
12% of total accounts receivable for both November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019.
 
No single customer accounted for more than 10% of revenues and
accounts receivable for the three months ended November 30, 2019 or 2018.
 
Significant Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)issued
Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) as modified by subsequently
issued ASUs 2015-14, 2016-08, 2016-10, 2016-12 and 2016-20 (collectively “new revenue standard”). The core principle
of the new revenue standard, among other changes, is that an entity should recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or
services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those
goods or services. The Company adopted the new revenue guidance effective September 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method
with no impact to the opening retained earnings.
  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases
(Topic 842)," which requires lessees to recognize almost all leases on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and a lease
liability. For income statement purposes, the FASB retained a dual model, requiring leases to be classified as either operating
or finance. Classification is based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in previous lease accounting, but without
explicit bright lines. Lessor accounting is similar to the previous model, but updated to align with certain changes to the lessee
model and the new revenue recognition standard. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including
interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted ASU 2016-02 on September 1, 2019 and applied the package of practical
expedients included therein, as well as utilized the transition method included in ASU 2018-11. By applying ASU 2016-02 at the
adoption date, as opposed to at the beginning of the earliest period presented, the presentation of financial information for periods
prior to September 1, 2019 remained unchanged and in accordance with Leases (Topic 840). As of November 30, 2019, the Company has
right of use assets of approximately $13.5 million and lease liabilities of approximately $11.2 million recorded in the consolidated
balance sheet.
 


9
 

 
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Financial
Instruments – Credit Losses”, which will require the measurement of all expected credit losses for financial assets
held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The guidance
is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those fiscal years. In November
2019, the FASB deferred the effective dates of the new credit losses standard for all entities except SEC filers that are not smaller
reporting companies to fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2022, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The
Company is currently evaluating this statement and its impact on its results of operations or financial position.
 
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, “Statement
of Cash Flows - Restricted Cash a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force.” This standard requires restricted cash
and cash equivalents to be included with cash and cash equivalents on the statement of cash flows under a retrospective transition
approach. The guidance will become effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and interim periods within those
fiscal years with early adoption permitted. The Company elected to adopt the new cash flow guidance effective September 1, 2018,
with an immaterial impact to the statements of cash flows.
 
Note 3.	Debt 
 
The Company currently has a $15,000,000 line of credit agreement
with Citizen’s Business Bank (the “Bank”). On December 4, 2019, the Company entered into a Change in Terms Agreement
dated November 27, 2019 with the Bank (the “Amendment”), which modified the Company’s $10,000,000 line of credit
between the Company and the Bank to increase the maximum amount that may be borrowed there under from $10.0 million to $15.0 million.
In addition, the interest rate provisions under the line of credit were modified so that in no event would such interest rate be
less than 3.5% per annum or the maximum interest rate permitted under law. The expiration date of the line of credit under the
agreement is July 5, 2021 and has a variable interest rate option that the Company may select (subject to the requirements in the
Amendment and provided that the Company is not in default under the line of credit agreement): to (A) The default variable interest
index rate, which is Citizens Business Bank Prime Rate of Interest, which is the prime rate (4.75% and 5.25% at November 30, 2019
and August 31, 2019, respectively) less 0.500%; or (B) One Hundred Eighty (180) day Libor Rate plus a margin of 1.550%; and (v)
replace the preferred rate of interest with a discounted rate. The amounts outstanding under this line of credit as of November
30, 2019 and August 31, 2019 is currently all under the default variable interest index rate of 4.25% and 4.75%, respectively.
Borrowings are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiary. The amounts outstanding under this
line of credit as of November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019 were $6,534,000 and $6,114,000, respectively. The line of credit agreement
contains certain nonfinancial and financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. As of November 30,
2019 and August 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants.
 
In September 2019, Bisco entered into Commercial Lease Agreement
(the “Hunter Lease”) with the Glen F. Ceiley and Barbara A. Ceiley Revocable Trust (the “Trust”), which
is the grantor trust of Glen Ceiley, our Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board and the Company’s majority shareholder.
Under this Commercial Lease Agreement, Bisco has leased from the Trust, approximately 80,000 square feet of office and warehouse
space located at 5037 and 5065 East Hunter Avenue, Anaheim, California (the “Hunter Property”), which will serve as
the Company’s new corporate headquarters, and has a term that expires on August 31, 2029. The Company also entered into a
new Loan Agreement with the Bank to borrow up to $5 million (the “Construction Loan”) for the primary purpose of financing
tenant improvements at the Hunter Property. The Construction Loan is a line of credit evidenced by a Promissory Note in the principal
amount of up to $5,000,000 with a maturity date of May 15, 2027. The terms of the Construction Loan provide that the Company may
only request advances through July 15, 2020, and thereafter, the Construction Loan will convert to a term loan. Interest on the
Construction Loan is payable monthly, subject to variable interest rate based on the Bank’s internal prime rate (4.75% and
5.25% at November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019). Concurrent with the execution of this Construction Loan, Bisco entered into a
Commercial Security Agreement, dated July 12, 2019, with the Bank, pursuant to which Bisco granted the Lender a security interest
in substantially all of Bisco’s personal property to secure Bisco’s obligations under the Loan Agreement. The balance
of the Construction Loan at November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019 was $2,152,000 and $342,000, respectively.
 


10
 

 
On May 15, 2017, the Company entered into a $5,400,000 loan
agreement with the Bank (the “Lakeview Loan”). The proceeds of the loan were used to purchase the building that houses
the Company’s current corporate headquarters and distribution center located in Anaheim, California (the “Lakeview
Property”). This loan was payable in 35 regular monthly payments of $27,142 and one irregular last payment of $5,001,607
due on the maturity of the loan on May 16, 2020. The Lakeview Loan is secured by a deed of trust to the Lakeview Property and had
a variable interest rate, which was 1.70% plus one year LIBOR (2.0% at November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019). EACO entered into
a commercial guaranty agreement, pursuant to which EACO is the guarantor for the Lakeview Loan. In September 2019, Bisco entered
into a Purchase Agreement to sell the Lakeview Property for a cash sale price of $7,075,000, which closed on November 19, 2019.
Upon the closing, Bisco used the proceeds from the sale to repay all of the outstanding principal and accrued interest on the Lakeview
Loan. No amounts were outstanding on the Lakeview Loan at November 30, 2019. The Company leased back the building from the buyer
until the Hunter Property is ready for occupancy.
 
Note 4. Earnings per Share
 
The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators
of the basic and diluted computations for earnings per common share (in thousands, except per share data):
 

 
For the three months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, 40,000
potential common shares (issuable upon conversion of 36,000 shares of the Company’s Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock) have been included in the computation of diluted earnings per share, which had no effect to basic earnings per share.
 
Note 5. Related Party Transactions
 
The Company leases its Chicago area sales office and distribution
center located in Glendale Heights, Illinois under an operating lease agreement (the “Glendale Lease”) from the Trust,
which is beneficially owned by the Company’s majority shareholder, who is also the Company’s Chairman and CEO. The
Glendale Lease is a ten year lease with an initial monthly rental rate of $22,600, which is subject to annual rent increases of
approximately 2.5% as set forth in the Glendale Lease. During the three months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company incurred
expense related to the Glendale Lease of approximately $71,000 and $68,000, respectively.
 
On July 26, 2019, the Company entered into the Hunter Lease
with the Trust, for the lease of the Hunter Property, which will house the Company’s new corporate headquarters. The Company
plans to commove its headquarters to the Hunter Property by the end of March 2020. The term of the Lease commenced on September
2, 2019 and ends on August 31, 2029 with an initial monthly rental rate of $66,300, which is subject to annual rent increases of
approximately 2.5% as set forth in the lease. The foregoing description of the Lease does not purport to be complete and is qualified
in the entirety by reference to the lease as filed as Exhibit 10.14 in its Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2019 as filed
with the SEC on November 27, 2019. During the three months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company incurred expense related
to the Hunter Property Lease of approximately $199,000 and none, respectively.
 


11
 

 
Note 6. Income Taxes
 
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Jobs Act”) was enacted
on December 22, 2017. The Jobs Act reduced the US federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, required companies to pay a one-time
transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and created new taxes on certain foreign
sourced earnings. We previously completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Jobs Act and have determined no
additional tax liability due to offsetting foreign tax credits. The Company is subject to taxation in the US, Canada and various
states. We have elected to account for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) in the year the tax is incurred.
 
During the three months ended November 30, 2019, the Company
recorded an income tax provision of $1,076,000, resulting in an effective tax rate of 36.0%. For the three months ended November
30, 2018, the Company recorded income tax provision of $845,000, resulting in an effective tax rate of 30.5%. The current period
effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate of 21% due to state income tax and permanent book to tax basis adjustments.
 
Accounting for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes a recognition
threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected
to be taken in a tax return and provides guidance on de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim
periods, disclosure, and transition. For the three months ended November 30, 2019, the Company did not have a liability for any
unrecognized tax benefit. The Company has elected to classify interest and penalties as a component of its income tax provision.
For the three months ended November 30, 2019, the Company did not have a liability for penalties or interest. The Company does
not expect any changes to its unrecognized tax benefit for the next three months that would materially impact its consolidated
financial statements.
 
The Company’s tax years for 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018
are subject to examination by the taxing authorities. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state,
local or foreign examinations by taxing authorities for years before 2015.
 
Note 7. Commitments and Contingencies
 
From time to time, we may be subject to
legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of our business. Any such matters and disputes could be costly and
time consuming, subject us to damages or equitable remedies, and divert our management and key personnel from our business operations.
We currently are not a party to any legal proceedings, the adverse outcome of which, in management’s opinion, individually
or in the aggregate, would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash
flows.
 
EACO has also entered into a business loan
agreement (and related $100,000 promissory note) with the Bank in order to obtain a $100,000 letter of credit as security for the
Company’s worker’s compensation requirements.
 
Note 8. Subsequent Events
 
Management has evaluated events subsequent to November 30, 2019,
through the date that these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are being filed with the SEC, for transactions
and other events which may require adjustment of and/or disclosure in such financial statements.
 


12
 

 
Item 2.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
Cautionary Statements
 
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking
statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Act”), and Section 21E
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Such statements can be identified by the use
of terminology such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,”
 “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “possible,” “project,”
 “should,” “will” and similar words or expressions. These forward-looking statements include, but are not
limited to, statements regarding our anticipated revenue, expenses, profits and capital needs. These statements are based on our
current expectations, estimates, projections, and the impact of certain accounting pronouncements, and are subject to a number
of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected or estimated, including
but not limited to adverse economic conditions, competitive pressures, unexpected costs and losses from operations or investments,
increases in costs and overhead, our ability to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, potential
losses from trading in securities, our ability to retain key personnel and good relationships with suppliers, the willingness of
lenders to extend financing commitments and the availability of capital resources, and the other risks set forth in “Risk
Factors” in Part II, Item 1A of this report or identified from time to time in our other filings with the SEC and in public
announcements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Except
as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason, including
to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The inclusion of
forward looking statements in this Quarterly Report should not be regarded as a representation by management or any other person
that the objectives or plans of the Company will be achieved.
 
Overview 
 
The condensed consolidated financial statements comprise the
accounts of EACO and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Bisco, and Bisco’s wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary, Bisco Industries Limited.
 
EACO is a holding company primarily comprised of its wholly-owned
subsidiary, Bisco. Bisco is a distributor of electronic components and fasteners with 48 sales offices and seven distribution centers
located throughout the United States and Canada. Bisco supplies parts used in the manufacture of products in a broad range of industries,
including the aerospace, circuit board, communication, computer, fabrication, instrumentation, industrial equipment and marine
industries.
 
Revenues derived from Bisco and its subsidiary represent 100%
of our total revenues and are expected to continue to represent all of the Company’s total revenues for the foreseeable future.
 
Critical Accounting Policies
 
The Company's
discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon its condensed consolidated financial
statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
 
Within the context of these critical accounting policies, the
Company is not currently aware of any reasonably likely events or circumstances that would result in materially different amounts
being reported.
 
In May 2014, the
FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued as a new Topic, ASC Topic 606 ("ASU 2014-09").
This new revenue recognition standard provides a step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized.
The premise of the standard is that a Company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to
customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or
services. The Company adopted the guidance beginning in fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective approach. The adoption of
this guidance did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 


13
 

  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases
(Topic 842)," which requires lessees to recognize almost all leases on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and a lease
liability. For income statement purposes, the FASB retained a dual model, requiring leases to be classified as either operating
or finance. Classification is based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting, but without
explicit bright lines. Lessor accounting is similar to the current model, but updated to align with certain changes to the lessee
model and the new revenue recognition standard. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including
interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted ASU 2016-02 on September 1, 2019 and applied the package of practical
expedients included therein, as well as utilized the transition method included in ASU 2018-11. By applying ASU 2016-02 at the
adoption date, as opposed to at the beginning of the earliest period presented, the presentation of financial information for periods
prior to September 1, 2019 remains unchanged and in accordance with Leases (Topic 840). As of November 30, 2019, the Company has
right of use assets of approximately $13.5 million (net of the reversal of the current deferred rent liability) and lease liabilities
of approximately $11.2 million recorded in the consolidated balance sheet.
 
There have been no changes to the Company’s critical accounting
policies for the three months ended November 30, 2019, except for the adoption of ASU 2016-02 referenced above. For additional
information regarding our critical accounting policies, please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2019
as filed with the SEC on November 27, 2019.
 
Results of Operations
 
Comparison of the Three Months Ended
November 30, 2019 and 2018
 
Net Sales and Gross Profit ($ in
thousands)
 

 
Net sales consist primarily of sales
of component parts and fasteners, but also include, to a lesser extent, kitting charges and special order fees, as well as freight
charged to customers. The increase in revenues in the three months ended November 30, 2019 (“Q1 2020”) as compared
to the three months ended November 30, 2018 (“Q1 2019”) was largely due to a higher volume of product sales, increased
sales department headcount over prior year quarter, increased sales related to new inventory items, and increased productivity
from the Company’s employees. Revenues have also increased due to the Company continuing to focus on relationship building
programs with current and potential customers and vendors, which resulted in additional new authorized distributorships in the
current fiscal year.
 
The
gross margins in Q1 2020 increased by 0.6% as a percentage of revenues when compared to Q1 2019. This increase was primarily due
to mix of products sold and larger discounts on purchased inventory for large dollar volume orders in Q1 2020 compared to Q1 2019.

 
Selling, General and Administrative
Expenses ($ in thousands)
 

 
Selling, general and administrative
expense (“SG&A”) consists primarily of payroll and related expenses for the Company’s sales and administrative
staff, professional fees including accounting, legal and technology costs and expenses, and sales and marketing costs. SG&A
in Q1 2020 increased from Q1 2019 largely due to an increase in employee headcount, annual raises, and higher sales bonuses related
to higher sales. The increase is also due to additional rental expense due to rent paid for the Hunter Lease while it is being
constructed and rent paid for our current headquarters at the Lakeview Property. SG&A as a percent of revenue in Q1 2020 decreased
slightly from Q1 2019 primarily due to the Company being able to increase sales with current and new customers without having to
incur additional significant SG&A expenses.
 


14
 

 
Other (Expense) Income, Net ($ in
thousands)
 

 
Other (expense) income, net primarily
consists of income or loss on trading in short-term marketable equity securities of publicly-held corporations and interest related
to the Company’s debt obligations. The Company’s investment strategy consists of both long and short positions, as
well as utilizing options designed to improve returns. During Q1 2020, the Company recognized a net loss on trading securities
of $80,000 as compared to a net gain of $228,000 in Q1 2019 in net realized and unrealized gains. The decrease in trading securities
in Q1 2020 was primarily due to timing of sales and purchases and general market climate of short and long positions during the
period.
 
During Q1 2020, the Company sold
the Lakeview Property for a cash purchase price of $7,075,000 in November 2019, realizing a total loss of $102,000 from the sale
in the current quarter. 
  
Interest and other (expense), net,
increased in Q1 2020 compared to Q1 2019 due to the interest expense on the Construction Loan for the Hunter Property and also
due to a higher balance held on the revolving line of credit during the current period. The Company repaid the Lakeview Loan in
full in November 2019 in connection with the sale of the Lakeview Property.
 
Income Tax Provision ($ in thousands)
 

 
The provision for income taxes increased by $231,000 in Q1 2020
over the prior year period. This increase was primarily due to a discrete tax item due to certain deferred tax assets and permanent
book tax differences related to prior periods that was reconciled and recorded in the current quarter for approximately $277,000.
The increase in taxes was also due to higher taxable income in the current quarter as compared to the prior year period. The income
tax provision as a percent of pre-tax income increased from 30.5% at Q1 2019 to 36% at Q1 2020 primarily due to permanent books
to tax adjustments.
 


15
 

 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
As of November 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company
held approximately $6,056,000 and $3,328,000 of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, respectively. The Company also held $405,000
and $1,873,000 of marketable securities at November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019, respectively, which could be liquidated, if necessary.
 
The Company currently has a $15,000,000 line of credit agreement
with the Bank. On December 4, 2019, the Company entered into the Amendment, which modified the Company’s line of credit between
the Company and the Bank to increase the maximum amount that may be borrowed there under from $10.0 million to $15.0 million. In
addition, the interest rate provisions under the line of credit were modified so that in no event would such interest rate be less
than 3.5% per annum or the maximum interest rate permitted under law. The expiration date of the line of credit under the agreement
is July 5, 2021 and has a variable interest rate option that the Company may select (subject to the requirements in the Amendment
and provided that the Company is not in default under the line of credit agreement): to (A) The default variable interest index
rate, which is Citizens Business Bank Prime Rate of Interest, which is the prime rate (4.75% at November 30, 2019 and August 31,
2019) less 0.500%; or (B) One Hundred Eighty (180) day Libor Rate plus a margin of 1.550%; and (v) replace the preferred rate of
interest with a discounted rate. The amounts outstanding under this line of credit as of November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019
is currently all under the default variable interest index rate of 4.25% and 4.75%, respectively. Borrowings are secured by substantially
all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiary. The amounts outstanding under this line of credit as of November 30, 2019
and August 31, 2019 were $6,534,000 and $6,114,000, respectively. The line of credit agreement contains certain nonfinancial and
financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. As of November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019, the Company
was in compliance with all such covenants.
 
On July 12, 2019, the Company also entered into the Construction
Loan for the primary purpose of financing tenant improvements at the Hunter Property. The Construction Loan is a line of credit
evidenced by a Promissory Note in the principal amount of up to $5,000,000 with a maturity date of May 15, 2027. The terms of the
Construction Note provide that the Company may only request advances through July 15, 2020, and thereafter, the Construction Loan
will convert to a term loan. Interest on the Construction Loan is payable monthly, subject to variable interest rate based on the
Bank’s internal prime rate (4.75% and 5.25% at November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019, respectively). The balance of the Construction
Loan at November 30, 2019 was $2,152,000 and $342,000 respectively.
 
The Company plans to move its corporate
headquarters during March 2020 to the Hunter Property, which is significantly larger than our current headquarters. The Company
expects to incur higher capital expenditures during the first and second quarter of fiscal year 2020 to fund tenant improvements
to modify this facility to meet the Company’s requirements.
 
On May 15, 2017, the Company entered into the Lakeview Loan,
the proceeds of which were used to purchase the Lakeview Property located in Anaheim, California. This loan is payable in 35 regular
monthly payments of $27,142 and one last payment of $5,001,607 due on the maturity date of the loan on May 16, 2020. The loan is
secured by a deed of trust to the Lakeview Property and bears a variable interest rate, which is 1.70% plus one year LIBOR (2.0%
at November 30, 2019 and August 31, 2019). This rate can be periodically reset based on the one year LIBOR rate no more than once
in any 12 month period at the election of the Bank. At August 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, the one year LIBOR was 2.0% and 2.8%,
respectively. At August 31, 2019, the outstanding balance of this loan was approximately $5,141,000. November 19, 2019, Bisco sold
the Lakeview Property for a cash purchase price of $7,075,000 and used the proceeds from the sale to repay all of the outstanding
principal and accrued interest on the Lakeview Loan.
 
EACO has also entered into a business loan
agreement (and related $100,000 promissory note) with the Bank in order to obtain a $100,000 letter of credit as security for the
Company’s worker’s compensation requirements.
 


16
 

 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
 
Cash used in operating activities was
$1,668,000 for the three months ended November 30, 2019 as compared with cash used in operations of $556,000 for the three months
ended November 30, 2018. The increase in current period cash used by operating activities was primarily due to the increase in
inventory to stock new and selling lines and a decrease in trade accounts payable due to timing of payments to vendors in the current
period. This was also adversely impacted to some extent by a decrease in trade accounts receivables in the current period due to
higher revenues in the previous quarter ended August 31, 2019. The prior period cash used in operating activities was primarily
due to an increase in inventory and accrued expense.
 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
 
Cash provided by investing activities
was $8,237,000 for the three months ended November 30, 2019 as compared with cash used in investing activities of $409,000 for
the three months ended November 30, 2018. The increase in cash flow from investing activities in the current year period compared
to the prior year period was primarily due to the Company’s proceeds from the sale
of the Lakeview Property in November 2019 for $7,075,000 and a net increase in securities sold short in the three months ending
November 30, 2019. This was partially offset by purchase of construction of leasehold
improvements in the quarter for $1,810,000 for the new corporate headquarters. The prior year cash used in investing activities
was primarily due to the Company’s a net increase in securities sold short in the three months ending November
30, 2018. 
 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
 
Cash provided by financing activities
for the three months ended November 30, 2019 was $2,919,000 as compared with cash used in financing activities of $659,000 for
the three months ended November 30, 2018. The cash increased used in financing activities comparing the current period to the prior
year period is primarily due to the repayment of the entire Lakeview Property mortgage loan in November 2019, when the property
was sold, partially offset by new borrowings on construction loan of $1,810,000 related to the leasehold improvements of the new
corporate headquarters. Cash provided by financing activities in the prior year period is primarily due to borrowings of $1,099,000
on the Company’s revolving line of credit.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 
The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements
that are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on the Company’s financial position, revenues, results
of operations, liquidity or capital expenditures.
 
Contractual Financial Obligations
 
In addition to using cash flow generated
from operations, the Company finances its operations through borrowings under its line of credit.  These financial obligations
are recorded in accordance with accounting rules applicable to the underlying transactions, with the result being that amounts
owed under debt agreements and capital leases are recorded as liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets while lease obligations
recorded as operating leases are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements and management’s discussion
and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended
August 31, 2019 as filed with the SEC on November 27, 2019.
 


17
 

 
Item 3.  Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk
 
The Company is a smaller reporting company
as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act and is not required to provide the information required under this item.
 
Item 4.  Controls and Procedures
 
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures. As
required by Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company
carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures.  This
evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who
also serves as the Company’s principal financial officer.  Based upon that evaluation, the Company’s Chief
Executive Officer has concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the
period covered in this report.
 
Changes in internal control over financial reporting.  There
have been no changes in internal control over financial reporting during the fiscal quarter covered by this report that have materially
affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
 


18
 

 
PART II
OTHER INFORMATION
 
Item 1.  Legal Proceedings
 
From time to time, we may be subject to
legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of our business. Any such matters and disputes could be costly and
time consuming, subject us to damages or equitable remedies, and divert our management and key personnel from our business operations.
We currently are not a party to any legal proceedings, the adverse outcome of which, in management’s opinion, individually
or in the aggregate, would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash
flows.
 
Item 1A.  Risk Factors
 
Our business is subject to a number of risks, some of which
are discussed below. The risk factors discussed in this section should be considered together with information included elsewhere
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered the only risks to which the Company is exposed. If any of the risks
actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market
price for shares of our common stock may decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 
 
Changes and uncertainties in the economy have harmed and
could continue to harm our operating results. 
 
As a result of the continuing economic uncertainties, our operating
results, and the economic strength of our customers and suppliers, are increasingly difficult to predict. Sales of our products
are affected by many factors, including, among others, general economic conditions, interest rates, inflation, liquidity in the
credit markets, unemployment trends, shipping costs, geopolitical events, and other factors. Although we sell our products to customers
in a broad range of industries, if economic conditions significantly weaken on a global scale it may cause some of our customers
to experience a slowdown, from time to time, which may in turn have an adverse effect on our sales and operating results. Changes
and uncertainties in the economy also increase the risk of uncollectible accounts receivable. The pricing we receive from suppliers
may also be impacted by general economic conditions. Continued and future changes and uncertainties in the economic climate in
the United States and elsewhere could have a similar negative impact on the rate and amounts of purchases by our current and potential
customers, create price inflation for our products, or otherwise have a negative impact on our expenses, gross margins and revenues,
and could hinder our growth.
 
The Company’s Chairman and CEO holds almost all of
our voting stock and can control the election of directors and significant corporate actions. 
 
Glen Ceiley, our Chairman and CEO, beneficially owns or controls
approximately 97% of our outstanding voting stock. As such, Mr. Ceiley is able to exert significant influence over the outcome
of almost all corporate matters, including the election of the Board of Directors and significant corporate transactions requiring
a stockholder vote, such as a merger or a sale of the Company or our assets. This concentration of ownership and influence in management
and board decision-making could also harm the price of our common stock by, among other things, discouraging a potential acquirer
from seeking to acquire shares of our common stock (whether by making a tender offer or otherwise) or otherwise attempting to obtain
control of the Company.
 
We generally do not have long-term supply agreements or guaranteed
price or delivery arrangements with the majority of our suppliers. 
 
In most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery arrangements
with our suppliers. Consequently, we may experience inventory shortages on certain products. Furthermore, our industry occasionally
experiences significant product supply shortages and customer order backlogs due to the inability of certain manufacturers to supply
products as needed. We cannot assure you that our suppliers will maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill our orders
on a timely basis, at a recoverable cost, or at all, or that we will be able to obtain particular products on favorable terms or
at all. Additionally, we cannot assure you that product lines currently offered by suppliers will continue to be available to us.
A decline in the supply or continued availability of the products of our suppliers, or a significant increase in the price of those
products, could reduce our sales, harm our reputation and negatively affect our operating results.
 


19
 

 
Our supply agreements are generally terminable at the suppliers’
discretion. 
 
Substantially all of the agreements we have with our suppliers,
including our authorized distributor agreements, are terminable with little or no notice and without any penalty. Suppliers that
currently sell their products through us could decide to sell, or increase their sales of, their products directly or through other
distributors or channels. Any termination, interruption or adverse modification of our relationship with a key supplier or a significant
number of other suppliers would likely adversely affect our operating income, cash flow and future prospects.
 
We generally do not have long-term sales contracts with our
customers. 
 
Most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, rather
than through long-term sales contracts. As such, our customers typically do not have any obligation to purchase any products from
us. A variety of conditions, both specific to each customer and generally affecting each customer’s industry, may cause customers
to reduce, cancel or delay orders that were either previously made or anticipated. In addition, customers may go bankrupt or fail,
or default on their payments. Significant or numerous cancellations, reductions, delays in orders by customers, losses of customers,
and/or customer defaults on payment could materially adversely affect our business and revenues.
 
If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls
over financial reporting or experience material weaknesses in our system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our
financial results accurately or timely or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common
stock and our business. 
 
We have from time to time had material weaknesses in our internal
controls over financial reporting due to a variety of issues, including without limitation, significant deficiencies in the process
related to the preparation of our financial statements, segregation of duties, sufficient control in the area of financial reporting
oversight and review, and appropriate personnel to ensure the complete and proper application of GAAP as it relates to certain
routine accounting transactions. Although we believe we have addressed these material weaknesses, we may experience material weaknesses
or significant deficiencies in the future and may fail to maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting that complies
with the reporting requirements applicable to public companies in the United States. Our failure to address any deficiencies or
weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or to properly maintain an effective system of internal control over
financial reporting could impact our ability to prevent fraud or to issue our financial statements in a timely manner that presents
fairly, in accordance with GAAP, our financial condition and results of operations. The existence of any such deficiencies and/or
weaknesses, even if cured, may also lead to the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, could
harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Such deficiencies or material weaknesses may also
subject us to lawsuits, investigations and other penalties.
 
We have incurred significant losses in the past from trading
in securities, and we may incur such losses in the future, which may also cause us to be in violation of covenants under our loan
agreement.
 
Bisco has historically supplemented its capital resources in
part from cash generated by trading in marketable domestic equity securities. Bisco’s investment strategy includes taking
both long and short positions, as well as utilizing options to maximize returns. This strategy can lead, and has led, to significant
losses from time to time based on market conditions and trends, as well as the performance of the specific companies in which we
invest. We may incur losses in future periods from such trading activities, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity
and financial condition.
 
In addition, unanticipated losses from our trading activities
may cause Bisco to be in violation of certain covenants under its line of credit agreement with Citizen’s Business Bank,
located in Anaheim, CA. The agreement is secured by substantially all of Bisco’s assets. The loan agreement contains covenants
which require that, on a quarterly basis, Bisco’s losses from trading in securities not exceed its pre-tax operating income.
We cannot assure you that unanticipated losses from our trading activities will not cause us to violate our covenants in the future
or that the Bank will grant a waiver for any such default or that it will not exercise its remedies, which could include the refusal
to allow additional borrowings on the line of credit or the acceleration of the obligation’s maturity date and foreclosure
on Bisco’s assets, with respect to any such noncompliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and
operations.
 


20
 

 
The unauthorized access to, or theft or destruction of, customer
or employee personal, financial or other data or of our proprietary or confidential information that is stored in our information
systems or by third parties on our behalf could impact our reputation and brand and expose us to potential liability and loss of
revenues. 
 
The protection of customer, employee and company data is critical
to us. We are subject to laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments, consumer credit and fraud. Additionally,
an increasing number of government and industry groups have established laws and standards for the protection of personal information.
The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition
of new and constantly changing requirements. Compliance with these requirements may result in cost increases due to necessary system
changes and the development of new administrative processes. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations regarding privacy and
security, we could be subject to significant fines, and become subject to investigations, litigation and the disruption of our
operations.
 
In the ordinary course of business, we receive and maintain
credit card and other personal information from our customers, employees and vendors. Customers and employees have a high expectation
that we will adequately protect their personal information, and certain states including California, have mandated additional compliance
requirements, which could result in additional expenses for the Company in the near future. Third parties may have the technology
or know-how to breach the security of this customer information, and our security measures and those of our technology vendors
may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. A number of retailers have experienced
security breaches in which credit and debit card information may have been stolen. While we have not experienced a cyber attack,
we are in the process of working with a third party vendor to assist us in safeguarding our systems and protecting the personal
information of our customers, employees and vendors. We are still at an early stage in this analysis and may not be able to adequately
address or remedy the potential harm, which could result in the assessment against us for large remedial costs and other penalties,
and could damage our reputation and adversely impact our customers.
 
We rely heavily on our internal information systems, which,
if not properly functioning, could materially and adversely affect our business. 
 
Our information systems have been in place for many years, and
are subject to system failures as well as problems caused by human error, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.
Many of our systems consist of a number of legacy or internally developed applications, which can be more difficult to upgrade
to commercially available software. It may be time consuming and costly for us to retrieve data that is necessary for management
to evaluate our systems of control and information flow. In the future, management may decide to convert our information systems
to a single enterprise solution. Such a conversion, while it would enhance the accessibility and reliability of our data, could
be expensive and would not be without risk of data loss, delay or business interruption. Maintaining and operating these systems
requires continuous investments. Failure of any of these internal information systems or material difficulties in upgrading these
information systems could have material adverse effects on our business and our timely compliance with our reporting obligations.
 
We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. 
 
Our future performance will depend to a significant extent upon
the efforts and abilities of certain key management and other personnel, including Glen Ceiley, our Chairman and CEO, as well as
other executive officers and senior management. The loss of service of one or more of our key management members could have a material
adverse effect on our business.
 
The competitive pressures we face could have a material adverse
effect on our business. 
 
The market for our products and services is very competitive.
We compete for customers with other distributors, who sell similar or sometimes identical products, as well as with many of our
suppliers. A failure to maintain and enhance our competitive position could adversely affect our business and prospects. Furthermore,
our efforts to compete in the marketplace could cause deterioration of gross profit margins and, thus, overall profitability. Some
of our competitors may have greater financial, personnel, capacity and other resources or a more extensive customer base than we
do.
 


21
 

 
Our strategy of expanding into new geographic areas could
be costly and may not expand our revenues. 
 
One of our primary growth strategies is to grow our business
through the opening of sales offices in new geographic markets. This strategy requires continued investment, both financially,
as well as management’s efforts to get the new offices operational. Based on our analysis of demographics in the United States,
Canada and Mexico, we currently estimate there is potential market opportunity in North America to support additional sales offices.
We cannot guarantee that our estimates are accurate or that we will open enough offices to capitalize on the full market opportunity
or that any new offices will be successful or profitable in the near future, or at all. In addition, a particular local market’s
ability to support a sales office may change due to competition or local economic conditions.
 
We may be unable to meet our goals regarding new office openings.

 
Our growth, in part, is primarily dependent on our ability to
attract new customers. Historically, our most effective way to attract new customers has been opening new sales offices in additional
geographic regions or new markets. We currently have 49 sales offices throughout the U.S., and plan to continue to expand our geographic
footprint, even outside the U.S. in the near further. During fiscal 2019, the Company opened one new geographical sales location
and relocated some existing locations to larger office locations within its original region and expanded sales and operating headcount.
Given the recent economic uncertainty, we may not be able to open or grow new offices at our projected or desired rates or hire
the qualified sales personnel necessary to make such new offices successful. Failure to do so could negatively impact our long-term
growth and market share.
 
Opening sales offices in new markets presents increased risks
that may prevent us from being profitable in these new locations, and/or may adversely affect our operating results. 
 
Our new sales offices do not typically achieve operating results
comparable to our existing offices until after several years of operation. The added expenses relating to payroll, occupancy, and
transportation costs can impact our ability to generate earnings. Offices in new geographic areas face additional challenges to
achieving profitability, and we cannot guarantee how long it will take new offices to become profitable, or that such offices will
ever become profitable. In new markets, we have less familiarity with local customer preferences and customers in these markets
are less familiar with our name and capabilities. Entry into new markets may also bring us into competition with new, unfamiliar
competitors. These challenges associated with opening new offices in new markets may have an adverse effect on our business and
operating results.
 
We rely on third party suppliers for most of our products,
and may not be able to identify and procure relevant new products and products lines that satisfy our customers’ needs on
favorable terms and prices, or at all. 
 
We currently rely on a large number of third party suppliers
for most of our products. Since we do not manufacture our products, we rely on these suppliers to provide quality products that
are in demand by our customers. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop product expertise and continue to identify
and provide future high quality products and product lines that complement our existing products and product lines and that respond
to our customers’ needs. We may not be able to compete effectively unless we can continue to offer a broad range of high
quality, reliable products that address the trends in the markets in which we compete.
 
Our ability to successfully attract and retain qualified
sales personnel is uncertain. 
 
Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract,
motivate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified sales employees, who understand and appreciate our strategy and culture and
are able to adequately represent us to our customers. Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill
these positions may be in short supply in some areas, and the turnover rate in the industry is high. If we are unable to hire and
retain personnel capable of consistently providing a high level of customer service, as demonstrated by their enthusiasm for our
culture and product knowledge, our sales could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees
could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. An inability to recruit and retain a sufficient
number of qualified individuals in the future may also delay the planned openings of new offices. Any such delays, material increases
in existing employee turnover rates, or increases in labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or operating results.
 


22
 

 
Increases in the costs of energy, shipping and raw materials
used in our products could impact our cost of goods and distribution and occupancy expenses, which would result in lower operating
margins. 
 
Costs of raw materials used in our products and energy costs
have been rising during the last several years, which has resulted in increased production costs for our suppliers. These suppliers
typically look to pass their increased costs along to us through price increases. The shipping costs for our products have risen
as well and may continue to rise. While we typically try to pass increased supplier prices and shipping costs through to our customers
or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact, we may not be successful. Failure to fully pass these increased prices and
costs through to our customers or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact would have an adverse effect on our operating
margins and could make our products less competitive, either of which could adversely impact our margins and results of operations.
 
We may not have adequate or cost-effective liquidity or capital
resources. 
 
Our ability to satisfy our cash needs depends on our ability
to generate cash from operations and to access our line of credit and the capital markets, which are subject to general economic,
financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. The total outstanding on our line
of credit as of November 30, 2019 was approximately $6.5 million, which line of credit is secured by substantially all of Bisco’s
assets. Further, the Company recently entered into a construction loan agreement with the Bank to borrow up to $5 million for the
primary purpose of financing tenant improvements on the new corporate headquarters. As of November 30, 2019, the total outstanding
on the Construction Loan was approximately $2.1 million. See Note 4 for further explanation. Our ability to continue to secure
financing is subject to our satisfaction of certain covenants contained in such agreements. As such, we may need to pursue additional
debt or equity financing, which funding may not be available on acceptable or favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. The
securities that might be issued in any future equity financing may have rights, preferences, and privileges that are senior to
our common stock. Our failure to obtain such funding could adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan and our financial
condition and results of operations.
 
Sales of our common stock by Glen Ceiley could cause the
price of our common stock to decline. 
 
There is currently no established trading market for our common
stock, and the daily volume of any stock sales has generally been low. As of November 30, 2019, the number of shares held by non-affiliates
of Mr. Ceiley was less than 160,000 shares. If Mr. Ceiley sells or seeks to sell a substantial number of his shares of our common
stock in the future, the market price of our common stock could decline. The perception among investors that these sales may occur
could produce the same effect. Due to the limited available public float, certain investors may not be able or willing to invest
in the Company’s securities, which could also impact the market price of our common stock.
 
Inclement weather and other disruptions to the transportation
network could impact our distribution system. 
 
Our ability to provide efficient shipment of products to our
customers is an integral component of our overall business strategy. Disruptions at distribution centers or shipping ports have
in the past, and may in the future, affect our ability to both maintain core products in inventory and deliver products to our
customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our relationship with our customers, reputation, and our results
of operations. In addition, severe weather conditions could adversely impact demand for our products in particularly hard hit regions.
 


23
 

 
Our advertising and marketing efforts may be costly and may
not achieve desired results. 
 
We expect to continue to incur substantial expense in connection
with our advertising and marketing efforts. Postage represents a significant advertising expense for us because we generally mail
fliers to current and potential customers through the U.S. Postal Service. Any future increases in postal rates will increase our
mailing expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For Q1
2020 and Q1 2019, we spent $120,000 and $72,000 on advertising, respectively.
 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk, and
changes in foreign exchange rates could increase our costs to procure products and impact our foreign sales. 
 
Because the functional currency related to our Canadian operations
and certain of our foreign vendor purchases is the applicable local currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate
risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business. Fluctuations in the relative strength of foreign economies and
their related currencies could adversely impact our ability to procure products overseas at competitive prices and our foreign
sales. Historically, our primary exchange rate exposure has been with the Canadian dollar.
 

Item 2.Unregistered
                                         Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

 
None.
 


Item 3.Defaults
                                         Upon Senior Securities

 
None.
 


Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures

 
Not applicable.
 


Item 5.Other
                                         Information

 
None.
 


Item 6.Exhibits

 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this report on Form
10-Q.
 

 


24
 

 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


 
EACO CORPORATION

 
(Registrant)

 
 

 
 

Date: January 14, 2020
/s/ Glen Ceiley

 
Glen Ceiley

 
Chief Executive Officer

 
(Principal Executive Officer
    & Principal Financial Officer)

 
 

 
/s/ Michael Narikawa

 
Michael Narikawa

 
Controller

 
(Principal Accounting Officer)

 


25
 

 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 


26

 



