
10-Q
1
form10-q.htm


 

 
 
UNITED
STATES
SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON,
DC 20549
 
FORM
10-Q
 
[X]
Quarterly report under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
For
the quarterly period ended September 30, 2019
 
[  ]
Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
COMMISSION
FILE NO. 1-11602
 
PEN
INC.
(Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 


Delaware
 
47-1598792

(State
    or other jurisdiction of
 
(I.R.S.
    Employer

incorporation
    or organization)
 
Identification
    No.)

 
 
 

701
    Brickell Ave., Suite 1550
 
 

Miami,
    FL
 
33131

(Address
    of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip
    Code)

 
(844)
273-6462
 

(Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code)
 


Title
    of each class
 
Trading
    Symbol
 
Name
    of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Class
    A Common Stock, $0.0001 par value
 
PENC
 
OTC
    Markets

 
Former
name or former address, if changed since last report: Not applicable.
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. [  ] Yes [X] No
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). [X] Yes [  ]
No
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting
company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “accelerated filer”, “large accelerated filer”,
“smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 


Large
    accelerated filer [  ]
Accelerated
    filer [  ]

 
 

Non-accelerated
    filer [  ] (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
Smaller
    reporting company [X] 

 
Emerging
growth company [  ]
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). [  ] Yes [X] No.
 
Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None
 
As
of January 7, 2020, the registrant had 6,222,880 shares of Class A Common Stock outstanding.
 

 
 

   
 

 
PEN
INC.
 
INDEX
 

 

 2 
 

 
FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS
 
This
Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements that we believe are within the meaning of the federal securities laws. For
this purpose, any statements that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements, including
the statements under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
regarding our strategy, future operations, future expectations or future estimates, financial position and objectives of management.
Those statements in this Form 10-Q containing the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,”
“expects” and similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements
contain such identifying words. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to a number
of risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, competitive factors, shifts in market
demand and other risks and uncertainties.
 
Although
we believe that the assumptions underlying our forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could be inaccurate
and actual results may differ from those indicated by the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-Q. In light of the
significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-Q, you should not consider the inclusion
of such information as a representation by us or anyone else that we will achieve such results. Moreover, we assume no obligation
to update these forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting
such forward-looking statements.
 

 3 
 

 
PART
I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
ITEM
1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
PEN
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS
 

 
See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 F-1 
 

 
PEN
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 

 
See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 F-2 
 

 
PEN
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ DEFICIT
FOR
THE THREE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 AND SEPTEMBER 30, 2018
(unadited)
 

 
See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 F-3 
 

 
PEN
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ DEFICIT
FOR
THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 AND SEPTEMBER 30, 2018
(unadited)
 

 
See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 F-4 
 

 
PEN
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
The
following table provides a reconciliation of cash and restricted cash reported within the consolidated balance sheet that sum
to the total of the same such amounts shown in the consolidated statement of cash flows:
 

 
See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 F-5 
 

 
PEN
INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SEPTEMBER
30, 2019
(UNAUDITED)
 
NOTE
1 – ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
Organization
 
PEN
Inc. (“we”, “us”, “our”, “PEN” or the “Company”), a Delaware corporation,
develops and sells a portfolio of nano-layer coatings, nano-based cleaners, and nano-composite products based on its proprietary
technology, and performs nanotechnology product research and development generating revenues through performing contract services.
 
Through
our wholly-owned subsidiary, PEN Brands LLC, formerly known as Nanofilm, Ltd., we develop, manufacture and sell consumer and institutional
products using nanotechnology to deliver unique performance attributes at the surfaces of a wide variety of substrates. These
products are marketed internationally primarily to customers in the optical industry. On May 2, 2017, Nanofilm, Ltd. changed its
name to PEN Brands LLC.
 
Through
our wholly-owned subsidiary, Applied Nanotech, Inc., we primarily perform design and development services for ourselves and for
governmental and private customers.
 
Basis
of Presentation
 
The
accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America (“US GAAP”) for interim financial information. Accordingly, they do not include
all the information and disclosures required by US GAAP for annual financial statements. In the opinion of management, such statements
include all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring items) which are considered necessary for a fair presentation of
the unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Company as of September 30, 2019 and for the three and nine months ended
September 30, 2019 and 2018. The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 are not necessarily
indicative of the operating results for the full year ending December 31, 2019 or any other period. These unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related
disclosures of the Company as of December 31, 2018 and for the year then ended, which were filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on Form 10-K on November 13, 2019.
 
Going
Concern
 
These
consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and
the settlement of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. As reflected in the consolidated financial statements
filed with our Form 10-K on June 15, 2019, the Company had a net loss of $53,135 and $687,068 for the years ended December 31,
2018 and 2017. Additionally, the Company had a net loss of $232,875 and $624,023 for the three and nine months ended September
30, 2019. Furthermore, the Company had an accumulated deficit, a stockholders’ deficit and a working capital deficit of
$7,264,393, $538,919 and $737,884, respectively, at September 30, 2019. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company’s
ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. Management cannot
provide assurance that the Company will ultimately achieve profitable operations or become cash flow positive, or raise additional
debt and/or equity capital. During 2018 and continuing in the first three quarters of 2019, management has taken measures to reduce
operating expenses. Although the Company has historically raised capital from sales of equity, there is no assurance that it will
be able to continue to do so. These unaudited consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the
recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the
Company be unable to continue as a going concern.
 
NOTE
2 – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Principles
of Consolidation
 
The
Company’s consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Applied Nanotech,
Inc. and PEN Brands LLC. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
Use
of Estimates
 
The
preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with US GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 include
estimates for allowance for doubtful accounts on accounts receivable, the estimates for obsolete inventory, the estimates for
cooperative advertising liability, the useful life of property and equipment, assumptions used in assessing impairment of long-term
assets, estimates of current and deferred income taxes and deferred tax valuation allowances, the fair value of non-cash equity
transactions, and the fair value of equity incentives.
 

 F-6 
 

 
Fair
Value of Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements
 
The
Company adopted the guidance of Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 820 for fair value measurements which clarifies
the definition of fair value, prescribes methods for measuring fair value, and establishes a fair value hierarchy to classify
the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows:
 
Level
1-Inputs are unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities available at the measurement date.
 
Level
2-Inputs are quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets
and liabilities in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable, and inputs derived from or
corroborated by observable market data.
 
Level
3-Inputs are unobservable inputs which reflect the reporting entity’s own assumptions on what assumptions the market participants
would use in pricing the asset or liability based on the best available information.
 
The
carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, loans and lines
of credit, accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other payables approximate their fair market value based on the short-term
maturity of these instruments.
 
The
Company analyzes all financial and non-financial instruments with features of both liabilities and equity under the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) accounting standard for such instruments. Under this standard, financial and non-financial
assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value
measurement. The Company does not value any instruments using level 3 valuation.
 
ASC
825-10 “Financial Instruments”, allows entities to voluntarily choose to measure certain financial assets and liabilities
at fair value (fair value option). The fair value option may be elected on an instrument-by-instrument basis and is irrevocable,
unless a new election date occurs. If the fair value option is elected for an instrument, unrealized gains and losses for that
instrument should be reported in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. The Company did not elect to apply the fair value
option to any outstanding instruments.
 
Cash
and Cash Equivalents
 
For
purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid instruments with a maturity of
three months or less at the purchase date and money market accounts to be cash equivalents.
 
Accounts
Receivable
 
The
Company recognizes an allowance for losses on accounts receivable in an amount equal to the estimated probable losses net of recoveries.
The allowance is based on an analysis of historical bad debt experience, current receivables aging, and expected future write-offs,
as well as an assessment of specific identifiable customer accounts considered at risk or uncollectible. The expense associated
with the allowance for doubtful accounts is recognized as general and administrative expense.
 
Inventory
 
Inventory
is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. At September
30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, inventory consisted of the following:
 

 
 

 F-7 
 

 
Property
and Equipment
 
Property
and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which range
from three to ten years. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life or lease term including scheduled
renewal terms. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. When assets are retired or disposed of, the cost and
accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts, and any resulting gains or losses are included in other income or expense
in the year of disposition. The Company examines the possibility of decreases in the value of these assets when events or changes
in circumstances reflect the fact that their recorded value may not be recoverable.
 
Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets
 
In
accordance with ASC Topic 360, the Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable, or at least annually. The Company recognizes an
impairment loss when the sum of expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset. The amount
of impairment is measured as the difference between the asset’s estimated fair value and its book value. The Company did
not record any impairment charge for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
 
Revenue
Recognition
 
Pursuant
to the guidance of ASC Topic 606 the Company recognizes sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has
occurred or services have been provided, the purchase price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured.
 
Types
of revenue:
 


●
Net
    product sales by our subsidiary PEN Brands LLC.

 
 

●
Reimbursements
    under agreements to perform contract services related to new products and product development for government agencies and
    others by our subsidiary, Applied Nanotech. We do not perform contracts that are contingent upon successful results. Larger
    projects are sometimes broken down in phases to allow the customer to determine at the end of each phase if they wish to move
    to the next phase. The agreements with federal government agencies generally provide that, upon completion of a technology
    development program, the funding agency is granted a royalty-free license to use any technology developed during the course
    of the program for its own purposes, but not any preexisting technology that we use in connection with the program. We retain
    all other rights to use, develop, and commercialize the technology. Agreements with nongovernmental entities generally allow
    the entity the first opportunity to license the technology from us upon completion of the project.

 
 

●
Product
    sales and other miscellaneous revenues from our subsidiary, Applied Nanotech such as the sale of conductive inks, graphene
    foils and thermal management materials.

 
Revenue
recognition criteria:
 


 
●
Net
    product sales by our subsidiary PEN Brands LLC, are recognized when the product is shipped to the customer and title is transferred.

 
●
Revenue
    from contract services performed is generally recognized based on what we have a right to invoice. 

 
●
Revenue
    from other product sales is recognized at the time the product shipped. The Company’s subsidiary Applied Nanotech’s
    primary business is contract services, not the sale of products. Product sales are generally insignificant in number and are
    generally limited to the sale of conductive inks, graphene foils, thermal management materials, samples, proofs of concepts,
    prototypes, or other items resulting from its contract services.

 
●
Other
    miscellaneous revenue is recognized as deemed appropriate given the facts of the situation and is generally not material.

 

 F-8 
 

 
Sales
Incentives and Consideration Paid to Customers
 
The
Company accounts for certain promotional costs such as sales incentives and cooperative advertising as a reduction of sales. For
both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 the Company recorded $0 as a reduction in sales related to sales incentives,
the same as it did for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
 
Cost
of Sales
 
Cost
of sales includes inventory costs, materials and supplies costs, internal labor and related benefits, subcontractor costs, depreciation,
overhead and shipping and handling costs incurred.
 
Shipping
and Handling Costs
 
Shipping
and handling costs incurred relating to the purchase of inventory are included in inventory which is charged to cost of sales
as product are sold. Shipping and handling costs incurred for product shipped to customers are included in cost of sales. For
the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 shipping and handle costs amounted to $19,282 and $24,175, respectively, and
were $62,806 and $90,615 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
 
Research
and Development
 
Research
and development costs incurred in the development of the Company’s products and under other Company sponsored research and
development projects are expensed as incurred. Costs such as direct labor, direct costs, and other allocated costs incurred to
perform research and development service pursuant to government and private research projects are in included in cost of sales.
Research and development costs incurred in the development of the Company’s products for the three months ended September
30, 2019 and 2018 were $10,778 and $1,850, respectively, and were $51,847 and $12,294 for the nine months ended
September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and are included in operating expenses on the accompanying unaudited consolidated statements
of operations.
 
Advertising
Costs
 
The
Company participates in various advertising programs. All costs related to advertising of the Company’s products are expensed
in the period incurred. Advertising costs charged to operations for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $0
and $279, respectively, and were $1,980 and $779 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and are
included in selling and marketing on the unaudited consolidated accompanying statements of operations. These costs are included
in sales and marketing on the consolidated accompanying statements of operations. These advertising expenses do not include cooperative
advertising and sales incentives which have been deducted from sales.
 
Federal
and State Income Taxes
 
The
Company accounts for income tax using the liability method prescribed by ASC 740, “Income Taxes”. Under this method,
deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets
and liabilities using enacted tax rates that will be in effect in the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The
Company records a valuation allowance to offset deferred tax assets if based on the weight of available evidence, it is more-likely-than-not
that some portion, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The effect on deferred taxes of a change in tax rates
is recognized as income or loss in the period that includes the enactment date.
 
The
Company follows the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes using the provisions of ASC 740 “Income Taxes”.
Using that guidance, tax positions initially need to be recognized in the financial statements when it is more likely than not
the position will be sustained upon examination by the tax authorities. As of September 30, 2019, and December 31, 2018, the Company
had no uncertain tax positions that qualify for either recognition or disclosure in the financial statements. Tax years that remain
subject to examination are the years ending on and after December 31, 2013. The Company does not expect any significant changes
in its unrecognized tax benefits within twelve months of the reporting date. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related
to uncertain income tax positions in other expense. However, no such interest and penalties were recorded as of September 30,
2019 or December 31, 2018.
 

 F-9 
 

 
Stock-Based
Compensation
 
Stock-based
compensation is accounted for based on the requirements of the Share-Based Payment Topic of ASC 718 which requires recognition
in the financial statements of the cost of employee and director services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments
over the period the employee or director is required to perform the services in exchange for the award (presumptively, the vesting
period). The ASC also requires measurement of the cost of employee and director services received in exchange for an award based
on the grant-date fair value of the award.
 
Pursuant
to ASC Topic 505-50, for share-based payments to consultants and other third-parties, compensation expense is determined at the
“measurement date.” The expense is recognized over the service period of the award. Until the measurement date is
reached, the total amount of compensation expense remains uncertain. The Company initially records compensation expense based
on the fair value of the award at the reporting date.
 
Loss
Per Share of Common Stock
 
ASC
260 “Earnings Per Share”, requires dual presentation of basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) with
a reconciliation of the numerator and denominator of the basic EPS computation to the numerator and denominator of the diluted
EPS computation. Basic EPS excludes dilution. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other
contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that
then shared in the earnings of the entity. Basic net loss per common share is computed by dividing net loss available to common
shareholders by the weighted average number of shares of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per common
share is computed by dividing net loss by the weighted average number of shares of common stock, common stock equivalents and
potentially dilutive securities outstanding during each period. Potentially dilutive common shares consist of common stock options
and warrants (using the treasury stock method).
 
These
common stock equivalents may be dilutive in the future. Potentially dilutive common shares were excluded from the computation
of diluted shares outstanding as they would have an anti-dilutive impact on the Company’s net losses and consisted of the
following:
 

 
Additionally,
there are an unknown quantity of common stock equivalents that result from a potential conversion of stock appreciation rights
(See Note 8).
 
Net
loss per share for each class of common stock is as follows:
 

 

 F-10 
 

 
Segment
Reporting
 
The
Company uses “the management approach” in determining reportable operating segments. The management approach considers
the internal organization and reporting used by the Company’s chief operating decision maker for making operating decisions
and assessing performance as the source for determining the Company’s reportable segments. The Company’s chief operating
decision maker is the Chairman and chief executive officer (“CEO”) of the Company, who reviews operating results to
make decisions about allocating resources and assessing performance for the entire Company. The Company classified the reportable
operating segments into (i) the development, manufacture and sale of consumer and institutional products using nanotechnology
to deliver unique performance attributes at the surfaces of a wide variety of substrates (the “Product segment”) and
(ii) nanotechnology design and development services for our future products and for government and private entities and sales
of products developed for third parties (the “Contract services segment”).
 
Recently
Issued Accounting Pronouncements
 
On
February 25, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02 (“ASU 2016-02”) to amend the accounting guidance for leases. The
accounting applied by a lessor is largely unchanged under ASU 2016-02. However, the standard requires lessees to recognize lease
assets and lease liabilities for leases classified as operating leases on the balance sheet. Lessees will recognize in the statement
of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying
asset for the lease term. For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election
by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities. If a lessee makes this election, it will recognize
lease expense for such leases generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2018 and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact of the guidance
on its consolidated financial statements and notes to its consolidated financial statements.
 
In
July 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-11, “Earnings Per Share (Topic 260) and Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) - Accounting
for Certain Financial Instruments with Down Round Features,” (“ASU 2017-11”). Equity-linked instruments, such
as warrants and convertible instruments may contain down round features that result in the strike price being reduced on the basis
of the pricing of future equity offerings. Under ASU 2017-11, a down round feature will no longer require a freestanding equity-linked
instrument (or embedded conversion option) to be classified as a liability that is remeasured at fair value through the income
statement (i.e. marked-to-market). However, other features of the equity-linked instrument (or embedded conversion option) must
still be evaluated to determine whether liability or equity classification is appropriate. Equity classified instruments are not
marked-to-market. For earnings per share (“EPS”) reporting, the ASU requires companies to recognize the effect of
the down round feature only when it is triggered by treating it as a dividend and as a reduction of income available to common
shareholders in basic EPS. The amendments in this ASU are effective for all entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within
those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect that adopting this new accounting guidance will have on its consolidated financial
statements.
 
There
are no other recently issued accounting standards that apply to us or that are expected to have a material impact on our results
of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.
 
Reclassifications
 
Certain
accounts and financial statement captions in the prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period financial
statements.
 

 F-11 
 

 
NOTE
3 – BANK LOANS AND LINES OF REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY
 
In
April 2014, our subsidiary, PEN Brands LLC entered into a $1,500,000 revolving credit line agreement (the “Revolving Note”)
with Mackinac Commercial Credit, LLC (the “Lender”) with draws limited to a borrowing base as defined in the Revolving
Note. The unpaid principal balance of this Revolving Note is payable on demand, is secured by all of PEN Brands LLC’s assets,
and bears interest computed at a rate of interest (the “Effective Rate”) which is equal to 7.0% above the LIBOR Rate,
as defined, payable monthly. PEN Brands LLC will pay to Lender a late charge of 5.0% of any monthly payment not received by Lender
within 10 calendar days after its due date. The Company may, at any time or from time to time upon three business days’
written notice to Lender, prepay the Note in whole provided that if (i) Borrower prepays the Revolving Note in full and terminates
the Revolving Note, or (ii) Lender terminates the Revolving Note after default, then Borrower will pay a termination premium equal
to 2.0% of the maximum loan amount. On May 1, 2015, PEN Brands LLC and the Lender entered into an amendment to the Loan and Security
Agreement extending the outside maturity date to April 4, 2016 and permitting advances against an expanded borrowing base. The
borrowing base was increased by $450,000 through October 31, 2015, with this amount reducing by $7,500 monthly thereafter. In
addition, PEN Inc., the parent company, guaranteed PEN Brands LLC’s obligations to the Lender. On April 4, 2016, the maturity
date under the Loan & Security Agreement between PEN Brands LLC and the Lender was automatically extended for a one-year renewal
term.
 
Without
the Lender’s consent, so long as the obligation remains outstanding, in addition to other covenants as defined in the Revolving
Note, PEN Brands LLC shall not a) merge or consolidate with any other company, except for the Combination and shall not suffer
a change of control; b) make any capital expenditures, as defined, materially affecting the business; c) declare or pay cash dividends
upon any of its stock, or distribute any of its property, make any loans, make investments, redeem, retire or acquire any of its
stock, d) become liable for the indebtedness of anyone else, as defined, and e) incur indebtedness, other than trade payables.
 
On
April 3, 2017, PEN Brands LLC and the Lender executed a second amendment to the Revolving Note that extended On April 3, 2017,
PEN Brands LLC and the Lender executed a second amendment to the Revolving Note that extended the maturity date to April 4, 2018,
with a one-year renewal option. The second amendment also changed the interest rate to 3.0% above the Prime Rate, as reported
in the Wall Street Journal. Under a subsequent amendment, the maturity date was changed to July 3, 2018.
 
On
October 17, 2017, pursuant to the terms of the Revolving Note, the gross proceeds of $85,000 in connection with the Asset Purchase
agreement were applied to decrease the borrowing base of the Revolving Note. In connection with the sale of fixed assets, the
Company amended the Revolving Note to establish a cash collateral account to be no less than $85,000. Pursuant to this amendment,
the Company entered into a loan agreement with two Company directors in the aggregate principal amount of $85,000 in order to
fund the cash collateral provision pursuant to the amended loan agreement. The loan bears no interest and is due when cash flow
permits, or if earlier, upon the payment or refinancing of the loan from the Lender to PEN Brands.
 
On
March 30, 2018, PEN Brands and the lender entered into the fourth amendment that permits the borrower to request up to three advances
of not more than $200,000 each supported by certain qualifying purchase orders. Each purchase order advance to be repaid in not
less than 30 days. No subsequent request can be made until any prior purchase order advance has been repaid. Two of the Company’s
officers and directors have personally guaranteed repayment of purchase order advances. The fourth amendment also changes the
maturity date for the loan to July 3, 2018. That date becomes the date for an automatic one-year renewal unless either the lender
or the borrower gives notice of non-renewal. Other terms and conditions of the agreement remain the same.
 
On
August 8, 2018, PEN Brands and the lender entered into the fifth amendment with an effective date of July 3, 2018. The fifth amendment
renewed the agreement through July 3, 2019 and provides for an automatic one-year renewal at that time unless it is terminated
by either party 60 days in advance. The fifth amendment also limits the amounts that PEN Brands can advance to its parent, and
provides that advances based on eligible inventory will reduce monthly by $7,500 per month starting November 1, 2018.
 
On
January 31, 2019, PEN Brands paid $172,101 to the lender. This payment, and the application of $85,000 in cash collateral held
by the lender paid in full the outstanding principal balance, accrued interest and fees due to the lender. The parties also terminated
the revolving credit line agreement and note originally executed in April 2014 that was renewed in August 2018.
 

 F-12 
 

 
NOTE
4 – NOTES PAYABLE
 
On
February 10, 2015, Nanofilm entered into a promissory note (the “Equipment Note”) with KeyBank, N.A. (the
“Bank”) to borrow up to $373,000. Nanofilm may obtain one or more advances not to exceed $373,000. The unpaid
principal balance of this Equipment Note is payable in 60 equal monthly installments payments of principal and interest
through June 10, 2020. The Equipment Note is secured by certain equipment, as defined in the Equipment Note, and bears
interest computed at a rate of interest of 4.35% per annum based on a year of 360 days. On June 18, 2019, PEN Brands entered
into an Amendment to the Equipment Note with the Bank. By the amendment, the maturity date of the note was extended until
April 10, 2022, the interest rate was raised to 6.29% per year, and the monthly payments were reduced. As of December 31,
2018, $73,562 and $60,563, respectively, were the current and non-current portion due under this note. As of September 30,
2019, $74,106 and $50,919, were the current and non-current portion due under this note.
 
In
June and November 2015, in connection with a severance package offered to four employees, the Company entered into four promissory
note agreements with the four employees which obligate the Company to pay these employees accrued and unpaid deferred salary in
an aggregate amount of $51,808. The principal amounts due under these notes shall bear interest at the minimum rate of interest
applicable under the internal revenue code (approximately 3.0% at December 31, 2018). All principal and interest payable under
three of these notes aggregating $41,178 are due in 2025 and all principal and interest payable under one of these notes amounting
to $15,813 are due in 2020. Accordingly, $51,808 is included in non-current notes payable.
 
On
May 31, 2016, in connection with a restatement of our agreement with a former research partner, we delivered a promissory note
to repay amounts previously advanced to us and accrued. The initial principal amount was $51,239 bearing interest at 5% per annum.
Installment payments include both principal and interest. After an initial payment of $2,000, the note requires payments of $1,000
for eleven months, payments of $2,000 for the following 12 months and monthly payments of $3,000 thereafter until paid in full.
The principal balance due on December 31, 2018 was $28,351, all classified as a current liability. At March 31, 2018 the principal
balance due was $22,682.05 all classified as a current liability.
 
January
2017, the Company issued a promissory note in the principal amount of $17,425 to a departing employee representing the amount
of his accrued and unpaid salary. The note does not bear interest and is due in January 2027, and is included in non-current notes
payable.
 
Future
principal payments of notes payable are as follows:
 

 
NOTE
5 – RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
As
of September 30, 2019, the Company included the following within accounts payable-related parties: Advances from related parties
of $159,887 from certain Company directors and executives and accrued payroll of $16,000 due to certain executives.
 

 F-13 
 

 
NOTE
6 - STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 
Description
of Preferred and Common Stock
 
On
December 11, 2015, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a reverse stock split of the issued and outstanding shares of
the Company’s common stock at the ratio of 1-for-180 (the “Reverse Stock Split”) and authorized an amendment
of the Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, to effect the Reverse Stock Split, to reduce
the number of authorized shares of common stock, and to set a par value of $0.0001 per share after the Reverse Stock Split. On
January 26, 2016, each one hundred eighty (180) shares of the Company’s (i) Class A Common Stock (“Class A common
stock”), (iii) Class B Common Stock and (iii) Class Z Common Stock, then issued and outstanding were automatically combined
into one (1) validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable share of Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and Class Z Common
Stock, respectively, without any further action by the Company or the holder. Additionally, the authorized number of shares of
common stock were reduced to 10,000,000 comprised of 7,200,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, 2,500,000 shares of Class B Common
Stock (“Class B common stock”), and 300,000 shares of Class Z Common Stock (“Class Z common stock”). The
par value of each class of common stock remained the same at $0.0001 per common share. All share and per share data in the accompanying
unaudited consolidated financial statements have been retroactively restated to reflect the effect of the Reverse Stock Split
and authorized shares. The Company is also authorized to issue 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share
(“preferred stock”).
 
Preferred
Stock
 
The
preferred stock may be issued in one or more series. The Company’s board of directors are authorized to issue the shares
of preferred stock in such series and to fix from time to time before issuance thereof the number of shares to be included in
any such series and the designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereof, of such series.
 
Common
Stock – General
 
The
rights of each share of Class A common stock, each share of Class B common stock and each share of Class Z common stock are the
same with respect to dividends, distributions and rights upon liquidation.
 
Class
A Common Stock
 
Holders
of the Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share in the election of directors and other matters submitted to a vote
of the stockholders.
 
Class
B Common Stock
 
Conversion
Rights. Shares of Class B common stock can be converted, one-for-one, into shares of Class A common stock at any time at the
option of the holder. Shares of Class B common stock will automatically be converted into shares of Class A common stock if the
shares of Class B common stock are not owned by the Company’s chief executive officer, his spouse, or their descendants
and their spouses, or by entities or trusts wholly-owned by them.
 
Voting
Rights Holders of PEN Class B common stock are entitled to 100 votes per share in the election of directors and other matters
submitted to a vote of the stockholders.
 
Class
Z Common Stock
 
Conversion
Rights. Shares of Class Z common stock can be converted, one-for-one, into shares of Class A common stock at any time at the
option of the holder. Shares of Class Z common stock will automatically be converted into shares of Class A common stock if the
shares of Class Z common stock are not owned by Zeiss or an entity wholly owned by the ultimate parent of Zeiss.
 
Voting
Rights. Holders of PEN Class Z common stock do not vote in the election of directors or otherwise, but they do have the right
to designate a director to the PEN Board, have anti-dilution rights described below and have consent rights with respect to certain
amendments to PEN’s certificate of incorporation.
 

 F-14 
 

 
Other
Rights. The Class Z common stock has anti-dilutive rights that, subject to limited exceptions, permit holders of Class Z common
stock to purchase additional shares or equity rights issued by PEN (on the same terms as made available to third parties by PEN)
to maintain their economic ownership percentage. The holders of Class Z common stock are also entitled to receive a copy of any
notice sent to the holders of Class A common stock or Class B common stock, as and when the notice is sent to such holders.
 
Issuances
of Common Stock
 
Common
Stock Issued for Services
 
On
February 28, 2018, the Company issued an aggregate of 4,443 shares of Class A common stock and 2,962 shares of Class B common
stock to the Company’s directors as compensation to them for service on its board. These shares were valued on that date
at $1.35 per share based on the quoted price of the stock for a total value of $10,000. On that same day, the Company issued 6,746
shares of Class B common stock in satisfaction of the outstanding equity credits.
 
On
May 23, 2018, the Company issued an aggregate of 5,043 shares of Class A common stock and 3,362 shares of Class B common stock
to the Company’s directors as compensation to them for service on its board. These shares were valued on that date at $1.19
per share based on the quoted price of the stock for a total value of $10,000.
 
Stock
Options
 
Stock
options outstanding are to purchase Class A common stock. Stock option activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019
are summarized as follows:
 

 
Contingently
Issuable Class A Common Shares
 
On
August 27, 2014, the Company entered into a Restricted Stock Agreement with Dr. Zvi Yaniv, the former Chief Operating Officer
and President, of Applied Nanotech, and a current employee of the Company granting Dr. Yaniv 37,778 shares of Class A common stock,
subject to forfeiture. All these shares become vested and not subject to forfeiture on the earlier of a change of control of the
Company, Dr. Yaniv’s death, or if more than 180 days after closing, the average trading price of the shares during a measurement
period of ten consecutive trading days reaches certain price thresholds. At an $18.00 price, 5,554 shares vest, with additional
tranches of 5,556 shares vesting if the price reaches $27.00, $36.00, $45.00 and $54.00. The last 10,000 shares vest at a $63.00
price threshold.
 
Any
shares that have not vested five years after the effective date will be forfeited. The Company also entered into a Piggyback Registration
Rights Agreement that will allow Dr. Yaniv, subject to other customary terms and conditions, to register shares that are no longer
subject to forfeiture if the Company is registering its shares. Pursuant to ASC 718-10 and related subsections, these shares were
valued on the date of grant of August 27, 2014 at $13.12 per share for a total value of $495,720. The Company estimates the fair
value of the awards with market conditions using a Binomial simulation, which utilizes several assumptions including the risk-free
interest rate, the volatility of the Company’s stock and the exercise behavior of award recipients. The grant-date fair
value of $495,720 of the awards will be recognized over the requisite service period of 3 years, which represents the derived
service period for the stock grant as determined by the Binomial simulation method. For the three months ended September 30, 2019
and 2018, in connection with the amortization of the fair value of this stock grant, the Company recorded stock-based compensation
of $0 and $27,540 respectively, and $0 and $110,160 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. August
27, 2019 was the fifth anniversary of the date of issue for the restricted stock issued to Dr. Yaniv. Because none of the vesting
conditions were met, the 37,778 shares of Class A common stock contingently issued were forfeited and are no longer outstanding.
 

 F-15 
 

 
Conversion
of Class Z Common Stock
 
On
May 23, 2017, Zeiss converted 262,631 shares of Class Z common stock into 262,631 shares of Class A common stock. Immediately
thereafter, Zeiss sold 262,631 shares of Class A common stock to certain buyers which included the Company’s Chief Executive
Officer for an aggregate of $100,000. In addition, pursuant to the certificate of incorporation, Zeiss’ Board representation
automatically terminated and, as a result, Zeiss ceased to be a related party as of May 23, 2017.
 
Conversion
of Class B Common Stock
 
On
or about October 15, 2018 as part of the terms for the stock sale to PEN Comeback, Scott and Jeanne Rickert and their family partnership
exercised the right to convert Class B shares into Class A shares on a 1:1 basis resulting in the issuance of 1,436,052 shares
of Class A common stock.
 
2015
Equity Incentive Plan
 
On
November 30, 2015, the Board of Directors authorized the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Plan”), which reserved 111,111
shares of common stock. If any share of common stock that has been granted pursuant to a stock option ceases to be subject to
a stock option, or if any forfeiture or termination affects shares of common stock that are the subject to any other stock-based
award, the shares are again available for future grants and awards under the Plan. The Plan’s purpose is to enable the Company
to offer its employees, officers, directors and consultants an opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company for
their contributions. As of December 31, 2018, 17,284 Class A common shares had been were issued under the Plan. As of September
30, 2019, 93,827 shares are available for future issuance.
 
NOTE
7 – CONCENTRATIONS
 
Concentrations
of Credit Risk
 
Financial
instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of trade accounts receivable
and cash deposits and investments in cash equivalent instruments.
 
Customer
Concentrations
 
Customer
concentrations for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 are as follows:
 


 



 
*Less
than 10%
 

 F-16 
 

 
A
reduction in sales from or loss of such customers would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations
and financial condition.
 
Geographic
Concentrations of Sales
 
For
the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, total sales in the United States represent approximately 85% and 94% of total
consolidated revenues, respectively. No other geographical area accounting for more than 10% of total sales during the nine months
ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
 
Vendor
Concentrations
 
Vendor
concentrations for inventory purchases for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 are:
 


 

*Less
than 10%
 
NOTE
8 – STOCK APPRECIATION PLAN
 
From
June 1, 1988, until December 31, 1997, when the plan was terminated, PEN Brands LLC had in place a Stock Appreciation Rights Plan
A (the “Plan”), intended to provide employees, directors, members of a technical advisory board and certain independent
contractors selected by the Board with equity-like participation in the growth of PEN Brands LLC. The maximum number of stock
appreciation rights that could be granted by the Board was 1,000,000.
 
There
were 235,782 fully vested stock appreciation rights (“SARS”) outstanding under the terms of the Plan at September
30, 2019 and December 31, 2018. The SARS unit value is based on the book value of the Company as of the last fiscal year end multiplied
by a SARS multiplier stipulated in the SARS plan. However, in the event of an initial public offering (“IPO”) of PEN
Brands, the SARS are redeemable based on a value equal to offering price of the stock in an IPO times the total outstanding shares
of the Company just subsequent to the completion of the IPO, multiplied by the SARS multiplier. The SARS multiplier is to be adjusted,
as the Board determines, to reflect changes in the capitalization of PEN Brands LLC. Generally, the SARS are redeemable in cash,
at their then fair value as computed pursuant to the Plan, in the event of termination of employment or business relationship,
death, permanent and total disability, or sale of PEN Brands (as defined). Upon an IPO, SARS are to be redeemed by applying 70%
of the redemption value to purchase common shares, with the remaining 30% being distributed in cash to the participant.
 
The
business combination completed in August 2014 did not qualify as an IPO under the Plan; however, a future underwritten registered
offering may qualify.
 
The
accrued redemption value associated with the stock appreciation rights amounted to $54,290 at September 30, 2019 and December
31, 2018. If the Company completes an IPO, the value of SARS calculated based on the IPO formula may cause a material increase
in the value of the liability.
 

 F-17 
 

 
NOTE
9 – SEGMENT REPORTING
 
The
Company’s principal operating segments coincide with the types of products to be sold. The products from which revenues
are derived are consistent with the reporting structure of the Company’s internal organization. The Company’s two
reportable segments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were the Product segment and ii) the Contract
services segment (formerly the research and development segment). The Company’s chief operating decision-maker has been
identified as the Chairman and CEO, who reviews operating results to make decisions about allocating resources and assessing performance
for the entire Company. Segment information is presented based upon the Company’s management organization structure as of
September 30, 2019 and the distinctive nature of each segment. Future changes to this internal financial structure may result
in changes to the reportable segments disclosed. There are no inter-segment revenue transactions and, therefore, revenues are
only to external customers. As the Company primarily generates its revenues from customers in the United States, no geographical
segments are presented.
 
Segment
operating profit is determined based upon internal performance measures used by the chief operating decision-maker. The Company
derives the segment results from its internal management reporting system. The accounting policies the Company uses to derive
reportable segment results are the same as those used for external reporting purposes. Management measures the performance of
each reportable segment based upon several metrics, including net revenues, gross profit and operating loss. Management uses these
results to evaluate the performance of, and to assign resources to, each of the reportable segments. The Company manages certain
operating expenses separately at the corporate level and does not allocate such expenses to the segments. Segment income from
operations excludes interest income/expense and other income or expenses and income taxes according to how a particular reportable
segment’s management is measured. Management does not consider impairment charges, and unallocated costs in measuring the
performance of the reportable segments.
 
Segment
information available with respect to these reportable business segments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019
and 2018 was as follows:
 

 

 

 F-18 
 

 
NOTE
10- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
Stock
Appreciation Rights
 
If
the Company completes an IPO, the value of stock appreciation rights calculated based on the IPO formula may cause a material
increase in the value of the liability (See Note 8).
 
Litigation
 
The
Company may be, from time to time, subject to various administrative, regulatory, and other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary
course of business. We are not currently a defendant in any proceedings. Our policy is to accrue costs for contingent liabilities,
including legal proceedings or unasserted claims that may result in legal proceedings, when a liability is probable and the amount
can be reasonably estimated.
 
NOTE
11 - SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
Sales
of Common Stock and Derivate Equity Securities
 
On
October 9, 2019, we sold an additional 88,235 shares of Class A common stock in a private placement to PEN Comeback 2, LLC at
a per share price of $0.65 for aggregate proceeds of $57,353. At the same time the investor bought 88,235 warrants to purchase
up to 88,235 additional shares at a warrant exercise price of $1.50. The right to purchase warrant shares expires four years from
date of issue. Aggregate proceeds from the sales of the warrants were $2,647.
 
On
October 31, 2019, we sold an additional 165,441 shares of Class A common stock in a private placement to PEN Comeback 2, LLC and
15,384 shares of Class A common stock to Rickert Family Partnership, all at a per share price of $0.65 for aggregate proceeds
of $117,537. At the same time PEN Comeback 2 bought 165,441 warrants to purchase up to 165,441 additional shares and the partnership
bought 13 warrants to purchase up to 13 additional shares, all at a warrant exercise price of $1.50. The right to purchase warrant
shares expires four years from date of issue. Aggregate proceeds from the sales of the warrants were $4,963.
 
On
December 10, 2019, we sold an additional 272,059 shares of Class A common stock in a private placement to PEN Comeback 2, LLC
at a per share price of $0.65 for aggregate proceeds of $176,838. At the same time the investor bought 272,055 warrants to purchase
up to 272,055 additional shares at a warrant exercise price of $1.50. The right to purchase warrant shares expires four years
from date of issue. Aggregate proceeds from the sales of the warrants were $0.03 per warrant for an aggregate of $8,162.
 
Stock
for Services
 
On
October 23, 2019, we issued an aggregate of 23,331 shares of Class A common stock to our directors as compensation to them for
service on our Board and its committees. These shares were valued on that date at $0.60 per share based on the quoted price of
the stock for a total value of $14,000.
 
On
December 18, 2019, we issued an aggregate of 20,688 shares of Class A common stock to our directors as compensation to them for
service on our Board. These shares were valued on that date at $0.58 per share based on the quoted price of the stock for a total
value of $12,000.
 
On
December 30, 2019, we issued an aggregate of 102,500 shares of Class A common stock under the 2015 Equity Plan to three employees
at a per share price of $0.65. In lieu of receiving cash, we cancelled $66,625 of accrued salary owed to the employees. The shares
are subject to a repurchase option in favor of the company under certain circumstances.
 

 F-19 
 

 
ITEM
2: MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
The
following is management’s discussion and analysis of certain significant factors that have affected our financial position
and operating results during the periods included in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements.
 
OVERVIEW
 
PEN
develops, commercializes and markets consumer and industrial products enabled by nanotechnology that solve everyday problems for
customers in the optical, transportation, military, sports and safety industries. Our primary business is the formulation, marketing
and sale of products enabled by nanotechnology including the ULTRA CLARITY brand eyeglass cleaner, CLARITY DEFOGIT brand defogging
products and CLARITY ULTRASEAL nanocoating products for glass and ceramics. We also sell an environmentally friendly surface protector,
fortifier, and cleaner. Our design center conducts development services for us and for government and private customers and develops
and sells printable inks and pastes, thermal management materials, and graphene foils and windows.
 
Our
principal operating segments coincide with our different business activities and types of products sold. This is consistent with
our internal reporting structure. Our two reportable segments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were (i)
the Product Segment and (ii) the Contract services Segment. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company
operated the same two segments.
 
RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
The
following comparative analysis on results of operations was based primarily on the comparative consolidated financial statements,
footnotes and related information for the periods identified below and should be read in conjunction with the unaudited consolidated
financial statements and the notes to those statements that are included elsewhere in this report. The results discussed below
are for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
 

 4 
 

 
Comparison
of Results of Operations for the Three and Nine Months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018
 
Revenues:
 
For
the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, revenues consisted of the following:
 

 
For
the three months ended September 30, 2019, sales from the Product segment were down by $119,820 or 31% as compared to the three
months ended September 30, 2018. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 revenue from the Product segment was down by $1,356,637
or 55% as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
 
For
the three months ended September 30, 2019, sales from the Contract services segment decreased by $127,786 or 33% as compared to
the three months ended September 30. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 revenue from the Contract services segment decreased
by $292,447 or 26%, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
 
Cost
of revenues
 
Cost
of revenues includes inventory costs, materials and supplies costs, internal labor and related benefits, subcontractor costs,
depreciation, overhead and shipping and handling costs incurred and costs related to government and private research contracts
in our Contract services segment.
 
For
the three months ended September 30, 2019, cost of revenues was down by $753,500 or 54 % as compared to the three months ended
September 30, 2018. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, cost of revenues was down by $1,334,216 or 60%. These changes
consisted of the following:
 

 
Gross
profit and gross margin
 

For the three months ended September 30, 2019,
gross profit decreased 52,086 or 42% as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. For the nine months ended
September 30, 2019, gross profit decreased by $586,122 or 66% as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
 
Gross
profit and gross margin by segment are as follows:
 

 
*
Gross margin % based on respective segments revenues.
 

 5 
 

 
For
the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to the comparable 2018 periods, product segment margins were down
due to a reduction in the volume of sales.
 
The
erosion in gross margin from the contract research segment for the three and nine ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the
three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was attributable to profit on government contracts in 2018 that was not recurring
in 2019.
 
Operating
expenses
 
For
the three months ended September 30, 2019, operating expenses decreased by $60,295 or 15% compared to the three
months ended September 30, 2018. Operating expenses decreased by $390,706 or 28% for the period ended September
30, 2019, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2018. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and
2018, operating expenses consisted of the following:
 

 

 
Loss
from operations
 
As
a result of the factors described above, for the three months ended September 30, 2019, loss from operations amounted to $(275,458)
as compared to loss from operations of $(283,667) for the three months ended September 30, 2018, a decrease of $8,209 or 3%. For
the nine months ended September 30, 2019, loss from operations amounted to $(723,129) as compared to a loss from operations of
$(527,713) for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increased loss of $195,416 or 37%.
 

 6 
 

 
Other
(income) expense 
 
For
the three months ended September 30, 2019, other income was $42,583 as compared to $25,746 for the three months ended September
30, 2018 an increase of $16,837 or 65%, due primarily to a  reduction in interest expense. Other income for the
three-month period ended September 30, 2019 decreased $16,258 or 29% as compared to the same period in 2018. For the nine months
ended September 30, 2019 other income was $99,106 as compared to $228,472 for the nine months ended 2018, a decrease of
$134,160 or 59%, due to a reduction in interest expense offset by a larger reduction in other income generated from forgiveness
of accrued payables.
 
Net
loss
 
As
a result of the foregoing, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, net loss amounted to $(232,875) and $(624,023)
as compared to net loss of $(257,921) and $(299,241) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. For the three-month
period the loss decreased by $25,046 or 10%. For the nine-month period the loss increased by $329,576 or 110%.
 
For
the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, net (loss) amounted to $(0.04) per common share (basic and diluted), and $(0.08)
per common share (basic and diluted), respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, net (loss) amounted
to $(0.14) per common share (basic and diluted) and $(0.10) per common share (basic and diluted), respectively.
 
LIQUIDITY
AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
 
Liquidity
is the ability of an enterprise to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs for cash requirements. We had working capital
deficit of $737,884 and $110,692 of cash as of September 30, 2019 and working capital deficit of $983,822 and $221,502 of cash
as of December 31, 2018.
 
The
following table sets forth a summary of changes in our working capital from December 31, 2018 to September 30, 2019:
 

 
The
decrease in current assets was a due to a reduction in accounts receivable, inventory, and a decrease in prepaid expenses. The
decrease in current liabilities is due to a reduction in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and the bank line of credit which
has been paid off.
 
Net
cash used in operating activities was $677,304 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to cash provided of $31,074
for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, a decrease of $708,378 or 2280%. Net cash provided by operating activities for the
nine months ended September 30, 2019 primarily reflected a net loss of $(624,023) adjusted for add-backs of $52,881 and changes
in operating assets and liabilities of $(106,162).
 
Net
cash flow used by investing activities was $(2,482) for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to $(3,917) for the
nine months ended September 30, 2018. For both periods, the use of cash by investing activities was due to purchases of property,
plant and equipment.
 

 7 
 

 
Net
cash provided by financing activities of $483,976 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to cash used in financing
activities $(61,135) in the same period in 2018. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we paid down the bank line of
credit and received proceeds from stock sales of $838,320.
 
Future
Liquidity and Capital Needs.
 
Our
principal future uses of cash are for working capital requirements, including sales and marketing expenses and reduction of accrued
liabilities. Application of funds among these uses will depend on numerous factors including our sales and other revenues and
our ability to control costs.
 
Revolving
Credit Note
 
In
April 2014, our subsidiary, PEN Brands LLC entered into a $1,500,000 revolving credit line agreement (the “Revolving Note”)
with Mackinac Commercial Credit, LLC (the “Lender”) with draws limited to a borrowing base as defined in the Revolving
Note. The unpaid principal balance of this Revolving Note is payable on demand, is secured by all of PEN Brands LLC’s assets,
and bears interest computed at a rate of interest (the “Effective Rate”) which is equal to 7.0% above the LIBOR Rate,
as defined, payable monthly. PEN Brands LLC will pay to Lender a late charge of 5.0% of any monthly payment not received by Lender
within 10 calendar days after its due date. The Company may, at any time or from time to time upon three business days’
written notice to Lender, prepay the Note in whole provided that if (i) Borrower prepays the Revolving Note in full and terminates
the Revolving Note, or (ii) Lender terminates the Revolving Note after default, then Borrower will pay a termination premium equal
to 2.0% of the maximum loan amount. On May 1, 2015, PEN Brands LLC and the Lender entered into an amendment to the Loan and Security
Agreement extending the outside maturity date to April 4, 2016 and permitting advances against an expanded borrowing base. The
borrowing base was increased by $450,000 through October 31, 2015, with this amount reducing by $7,500 monthly thereafter. In
addition, the Company guaranteed PEN Brands LLC’s obligations to the Lender. On April 4, 2016, the maturity date under the
Loan & Security Agreement between PEN Brands LLC and the Lender was automatically extended for a one-year renewal term.
 
Without
the Lender’s consent, so long as the obligation remains outstanding, in addition to other covenants as defined in the Revolving
Note, PEN Brands LLC shall not a) merge or consolidate with any other company, except for the combination that closed in August
2014 and shall not suffer a change of control; b) make any capital expenditures, as defined, materially affecting the business;
c) declare or pay cash dividends upon any of its stock, or distribute any of its property, make any loans, make investments, redeem,
retire or acquire any of its stock, d) become liable for the indebtedness of anyone else, as defined, and e) incur indebtedness,
other than trade payables.
 
On
April 3, 2017, PEN Brands LLC and the Lender executed a second amendment to the Revolving Note that extended On April 3, 2017,
PEN Brands LLC and the Lender executed a second amendment to the Revolving Note that extended the maturity date to April 4, 2018,
with a one-year renewal option. The second amendment also changed the interest rate to 3.0% above the Prime Rate, as reported
in the Wall Street Journal. Under a subsequent amendment, the maturity date was changed to July 3, 2018.
 
On
October 17, 2017, pursuant to the terms of the Revolving Note, the gross proceeds of $85,000 in connection with the Asset Purchase
agreement were applied to decrease the borrowing base of the Revolving Note. In connection with the sale of fixed assets, the
Company amended the Revolving Note to establish a cash collateral account to be no less than $85,000. Pursuant to this amendment,
the Company entered into a loan agreement with two Company directors in the aggregate principal amount of $85,000 in order to
fund the cash collateral provision pursuant to the amended loan agreement. The loan bears no interest and is due when cash flow
permits, or if earlier, upon the payment or refinancing of the loan from the Lender to PEN Brands.
 
On
March 30, 2018, PEN Brands and the lender entered into the fourth amendment that permits the borrower to request up to three advances
of not more than $200,000 each supported by certain qualifying purchase orders. Each purchase order advance to be repaid in not
less than 30 days. No subsequent request can be made until any prior purchase order advance has been repaid. Two of the Company’s
officers and directors have personally guaranteed repayment of purchase order advances. The fourth amendment also changes the
maturity date for the loan to July 3, 2018. That date becomes the date for an automatic one-year renewal unless either the lender
or the borrower gives notice of non-renewal. Other terms and conditions of the agreement remain the same.
 

 8 
 

 
On
August 8, 2018, PEN Brands and the lender entered into the fifth amendment with an effective date of July 3, 2018. The fifth amendment
renewed the agreement through July 3, 2019 and provides for an automatic one-year renewal at that time unless it is terminated
by either party 60 days in advance. The fifth amendment also limits the amounts that PEN Brands can advance to its parent, and
provides that advances based on eligible inventory will reduce monthly by $7,500 per month starting November 1, 2018.
 
On
January 31, 2019, PEN Brands paid $172,101 to the lender. This payment, and the application of $85,000 in cash collateral held
by the lender paid in full the outstanding principal balance, accrued interest and fees due to the lender. The parties also terminated
the revolving credit line agreement and note originally executed in April 2014 that was renewed in August 2018.
 
Equipment
Financing
 
On
February 10, 2015, Nanofilm entered into a promissory note (the “Equipment Note”) with KeyBank, N.A. (the “Bank”)
to borrow up to $373,000. Nanofilm may obtain one or more advances not to exceed $373,000. The unpaid principal balance of this
Equipment Note is payable in 60 equal monthly installments payments of principal and interest through June 10, 2020. The Equipment
Note is secured by certain equipment, as defined in the Equipment Note, and bears interest computed at a rate of interest of 4.35%
per annum based on a year of 360 days. On June 18, 2019, PEN Brands entered into an Amendment to the Equipment Note with the Bank.
By the amendment, the maturity date of the note was extended until April 10, 2022, the interest rate was raised to 6.29% per year,
and the monthly payments were reduced. As of December 31, 2018, $73,562 and $60,563, respectively, were the current and non-current
portion due under this note. As of September 30, 2019, $74,106 and $50,919, were the current and non-current portion
due under this note.
 
Off-Balance
Sheet Arrangements
 
We
have not entered into any other financial guarantees or other commitments to guarantee the payment obligations of any third parties.
We have not entered into any derivative contracts that are indexed to our shares and classified as shareholder’s equity
or that are not reflected in our consolidated unaudited financial statements. Furthermore, we do not have any retained or contingent
interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to such entity.
We do not have any variable interest in any unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit support
to us or engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with us.
 
ITEM
3. Quantitative and Qualitative disclosures about market risk
 
Not
applicable to smaller reporting companies.
 
ITEM
4. Controls and Procedures
 
Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial
officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures,
as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of the end of the period covered by
this report (the “Evaluation Date”). Based upon this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial
officer concluded as of the Evaluation Date that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective such that the material
information required to be included in our Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) reports was recorded, but we
lacked the staff or cash to purchase outside resources to process, summarize, and report within the time periods specified in
SEC rules and forms.
 
Our
management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls
and procedures or our internal controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and
operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the
design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered
relative to their costs. Due to the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute
assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected.
 

 9 
 

 
Changes
in Internal Control
 
There
were no changes identified in connection with our internal control over financial reporting during the three months ended September
30, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
 
PART
II. OTHER INFORMATION
 
ITEM
1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
None.
 
ITEM
1A. RISK FACTORS
 
Not
required of smaller reporting companies.
 
ITEM
2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
 
On
January 31, 2019, we sold 325,581 shares of Class A common stock in a private placement at a per share price of $0.40 for aggregate
proceeds of $130,232. At the same time the investor bought warrants to purchase up to 325,581 additional shares at a warrant exercise
price of $1.50. The right to purchase warrant shares expires on the earlier of (1) 45 days after the day that PEN shares have
been trading at or above 120% of the exercise price for a period of 90 days, or (2) four years from date of issue. Aggregate proceeds
from the sales of the warrants were $9,767.
 
Proceeds
were used, along with other corporate funds, to pay in full the principal balance, accrued interest and fees due to our lender
MBank.
 
On
March 22, 2019, we sold 232,558 shares of Class A common stock in a private placement at a per share price of $0.40 for aggregate
proceeds of $93,023. At the same time the investor bought warrants to purchase up to 325,581 additional shares at a warrant exercise
price of $1.50. The right to purchase warrant shares expires on the earlier of (1) 45 days after the day that PEN shares have
been trading at or above 120% of the exercise price for a period of 90 days, or (2) four years from date of issue. Aggregate proceeds
from the sales of the warrants were $6,977.
 
On
May 10, 2019, we sold 523,266 shares of Class A common stock in a private placement to PEN Comeback at a per share price of $0.40
for aggregate proceeds of $209,302. At the same time the investor bought warrants to purchase up to 523,266 additional shares
at a warrant exercise price of $1.50. The right to purchase warrant shares expires on the earlier of (1) 45 days after the day
that PEN shares have been trading at or above 120% of the exercise price for a period of 90 days, or (2) four years from date
of issue. Aggregate proceeds from the sales of the warrants were $15,698.
 
Proceeds
were used for working capital and other corporate expenditures.
 
On
September 6, 2019, we sold 216,912 shares of Class A common stock in a private placement to PEN Comeback 2, LLC at a per share
price of $0.65 for aggregate proceeds of $140,993. At the same time the investor bought 216,906 warrants to purchase up to 216,906
additional shares at a warrant exercise price of $1.50. The right to purchase warrant shares expires four years from date of issue.
Aggregate proceeds from the sales of the warrants were $6,507.
 
On
October 9, 2019, we sold an additional 88,235 shares of Class A common stock in a private placement to PEN Comeback 2, LLC at
a per share price of $0.65 for aggregate proceeds of $57,353. At the same time the investor bought 88,235 warrants to purchase
up to 88,235 additional shares at a warrant exercise price of $1.50. The right to purchase warrant shares expires four years from
date of issue. Aggregate proceeds from the sales of the warrants were $2,647.
 

 10 
 

 
On
October 31, 2019, we sold an additional 165,441 shares of Class A common stock in a private placement to PEN Comeback 2, LLC and
15,384 shares of Class A common stock to Rickert Family Partnership, all at a per share price of $0.65 for aggregate proceeds
of $117,537. At the same time PEN Comeback 2 bought 165,441 warrants to purchase up to 165,441 additional shares and the partnership
bought 13 warrants to purchase up to 13 additional shares, all at a warrant exercise price of $1.50. The right to purchase warrant
shares expires four years from date of issue. Aggregate proceeds from the sales of the warrants were $4,963.
 
On
December 10, 2019, we sold an additional 272,059 shares of Class A common stock in a private placement to PEN Comeback 2, LLC
at a per share price of $0.65 for aggregate proceeds of $176,838. At the same time the investor bought 272,055 warrants to purchase
up to 272,055 additional shares at a warrant exercise price of $1.50. The right to purchase warrant shares expires four years
from date of issue. Aggregate proceeds from the sales of the warrants were $0.03 per warrant for an aggregate of $8,162.
 
Proceeds
from all the sales to PEN Comeback 2, LLC were used for working capital and general corporate purposes.
 
The
sales and the issuances of stock and derivative securities were exempt from registration under Section 4(2).
 
Stock
for Services
 
On
April 3, 2019, we issued an aggregate of 18,180 shares of our Class A common stock to five of our directors as compensation to
them for service on our Board. The shares were valued at $0.55 per share based on the quoted price of the stock for a total value
of $10,000. On that date the Board also granted to our President an option to purchase up to 550,000 shares of our Class A common
stock at a price of $0.55 per share. Under that option, the right to purchase 50,000 shares vested on the date of grant, the right
to purchase up to 75,000 shares vested on December 31, 2019, the right to purchase 100,000 shares will vest on June 30, 2020,
and the right to purchase up to 125,000 shares will vest on December 31, 2020 and two tranches entitling him to purchase 100,000
shares will vest if he reaches the cap for cash payments under the bonus program in 2019 or 2020. All rights to purchase have
a term of 5 years from date of vesting.
 
On
April 24, 2019, we issued an aggregate of 19,998 shares of Class A common stock to our directors as compensation to them for service
on our Board. These shares were valued on that date at $0.60 per share based on the quoted price of the stock for a total value
of $12,000.
 
On
July 24, 2019, we issued an aggregate of 18,750 shares of Class A common stock to our directors as compensation to them for service
on our Board. These shares were valued on that date at $0.64 per share based on the quoted price of the stock for a total value
of $12,000.
 
On
October 23, 2019, we issued an aggregate of 23,331 shares of Class A common stock to our directors as compensation to them for
service on our Board and its committees. These shares were valued on that date at $0.60 per share based on the quoted price of
the stock for a total value of $14,000.
 
On
December 18, 2019, we issued an aggregate of 20,688 shares of Class A common stock to our directors as compensation to them for
service on our Board. These shares were valued on that date at $0.58 per share based on the quoted price of the stock for a total
value of $12,000.
 
On
December 30, 2019, we issued an aggregate of 102,500 shares of Class A common stock under the 2015 Equity Plan to three employees
at a per share price of $0.65. In lieu of receiving cash, we cancelled $66,625 of accrued salary owed to the employees. The shares
are subject to a repurchase option in favor of the company under certain circumstances.
 
The
sales and issuances of stock and other securities were exempt from registration under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.
 
ITEM
3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES
 
None.
 

 11 
 

 
ITEM
4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
 
Not
applicable.
 
ITEM
5. OTHER INFORMATION
 
None.
 
ITEM
6. EXHIBITS
 

 

 12 
 

 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


 
PEN
        Inc.
(Registrant)

 
 

Date:
    January 14, 2020
/s/
    Tom J. Berman

 
Tom J. Berman

 
President 

 
 

Date:
    January 14, 2020
/s/
    Jacqueline M. Soptick

 
Jacqueline M. Soptick

 
Chief Accounting Officer

 

 13 
 

 


