
10-Q
1
patriot_10q-11302019.htm
FORM 10-Q




 
Table of Contents
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-Q
 
(Mark One)
 

[X]QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the quarterly period
ended November 30, 2019
 
OR
 

[_]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the transition
period from ___________ to _______________
 
Commission
File Number 0-22182
 
PATRIOT
SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter)
 



Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)

84-1070278
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

 



2038 Corte Del Nogal, Suite 141, Carlsbad,
        California
(Address of principal executive offices)

92011
(Zip Code)

 
(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code): (760) 795-8517
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(b) of the Act:
 


Title of each class
 
Trading Symbol
 
Name of each exchange on which registered

None
 
None
 
None

 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES [X ] NO [_]
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§
232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit
such files). YES [X] NO [_]
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company.
See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,”
and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 


Large accelerated filer [_]
Accelerated filer [_]

Non-accelerated filer [_] 
Smaller reporting company [X]

Emerging growth company [_]   
 

 
If an emerging growth company, indicate
by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial
accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.  ☐
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). YES [_]  NO [X]
 
On January 13, 2020, 401,392,948 shares
of common stock, par value $0.00001 per share were outstanding.
 

 
 


   
 

 
 
INDEX
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 2 
 

 
PART I- FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
 
Item 1. Financial Statements 
Patriot Scientific Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
 

 
 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements
 
 
 


 3 
 

 
Patriot
Scientific Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of
Operations
(Unaudited)
 
 

 
 
 
See accompanying
notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements
 
 
 
 
 

 4 
 

 
Patriot Scientific Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows

 (Unaudited)
 
 

 
 
See accompanying
notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 

 5 
 


 
Patriot Scientific Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of
Stockholders’ Equity
 (Unaudited)
 
 
For the three months ended November 30, 2019
 

 
 
For the three months ended November 30, 2018
 

 
 

For the six months ended November 30, 2019
 


 
 
For the six months ended November
30, 2018
 

 
 
See accompanying
notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 

 6 
 

 
Patriot Scientific Corporation
Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements
 

1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies
 
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial
statements of Patriot Scientific Corporation (the “Company”, “PTSC”, “Patriot”, “we”,
“us” or “our”) presented herein have been prepared pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) for quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and do not include all of the information and footnotes required
by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements
should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Report on Form
10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2019.
 
The accompanying condensed consolidated
financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern. In the opinion of management, the
interim condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments of a normal recurring nature necessary for a fair presentation
of the results for the interim period presented. Operating results for the three and six month periods ended November 30, 2019
are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending May 31, 2020.
 
Basis of Consolidation
 
The condensed consolidated
balance sheets at November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019 include our accounts and those of our inactive subsidiary Patriot Data
Solutions Group, Inc. (“PDSG”) which includes Crossflo Systems, Inc. (“Crossflo”). The condensed
consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and stockholders’ equity for the three and six months ended November
30, 2019 and 2018 include our accounts and those of our inactive subsidiaries: PDSG and Plasma Scientific Corporation
(“Plasma”). We dissolved Plasma in March 2018. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated.
 
Liquidity and Management’s Plans
 
The accompanying condensed consolidated
financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern. At November 30, 2019, the Company
has an accumulated deficit of $61,982,387, and has incurred recurring losses and used significant amounts of cash in its operations.
As of November 30, 2019, the Company had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $963,000 and working
capital of approximately $805,000.
 
Historically, we have been a licensing
company and entered into a number of agreements to facilitate the pursuit of unlicensed users of our intellectual property. On
November 4, 2019, we announced that the Supreme Court of the United States denied our petition for a writ of certiorari with respect
to patent litigation previously before the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit that alleged infringement of
the US 5,809,336 patent (the “‘336 patent”) against multiple defendants (see Note 6). Based on this decision,
we have halted all licensing efforts as we evaluate the future direction of the Company as we do not have any potential sources
of revenue and our joint venture, Phoenix Digital solutions, LLC (“PDS”) has not generated significant license revenues
since September 2013.
 

There are a number of uncertainties associated
with our financial projections that could increase our projected expenses, which would further accelerate cash usage. Additionally,
we do not expect to realize satisfactory cash from operations over the foreseeable future and we will be required to seek additional
financing to continue our operations. We will also require additional financing to develop or acquire new lines of business. We
have no current arrangements with respect to any additional financing. Consequently, there can be no assurance that any additional
financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, will be available when needed. Further, any additional equity financing,
if secured, may involve substantial dilution to our then existing stockholders.
 
 
 


 7 
 

 
Patriot Scientific Corporation
Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements
  
One opportunity we are evaluating is
the potential of establishing a company that develops a data capturing platform that could be implemented throughout the drug
development process utilizing blockchain technologies in collaboration with Artius Bioconsulting LLC (“Artius”),
under an agreement signed on April 12, 2019. During the quarter ended November 30, 2019, Artius completed and submitted their
feasibility report to us and we are currently evaluating next steps. However, there are no assurances that we will be
successful in developing this blockchain based business. Further, in the event the next steps in the development of a
blockchain-based business are undertaken, it is expected that significant additional funding from external sources will be
required. If we are unable to develop or acquire new lines of business, such as those involving blockchain technologies,
and/or we are unable to raise additional capital, we will be forced to liquidate the Company in a dissolution under Delaware
law or seek protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We currently anticipate, based on currently
operations, that our cash on hand will not satisfy our operational and capital requirements through twelve months from the
date of filing on this Form 10-Q.
 
The above matters raise substantial doubt
regarding our ability to continue as a going concern.
 
Investment in Affiliated Companies
 
We have a 50% interest in PDS. We account
for our investment using the equity method of accounting since the investment provides us the ability to exercise significant influence,
but not control, over the investee. Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if we have an ownership interest in the
voting stock of the investee of between 20% and 50%, although other factors, such as representation on the investee’s Board
of Directors, are considered in determining whether the equity method of accounting is appropriate. Under the equity method of
accounting, the investment, originally recorded at cost, is adjusted to recognize our share of net earnings or losses of the investee
and is recognized in the condensed consolidated statements of operations in the caption “Equity in loss of affiliated company”
and also is adjusted by contributions to and distributions from PDS.
 
PDS, as an unconsolidated equity investee,
recognizes revenue from technology license agreements at the time a contract is entered into, the license method is determined
(paid-in-advance or on-going royalty), performance obligations under the license agreement are satisfied, and the realization of
revenue is assured which is generally upon the receipt of the license proceeds. PDS may at times enter into license agreements
whereby contingent revenues are recognized as one or more contractual milestones are met.
 
We review our investment in PDS to determine
whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The primary factors we consider
in our determination are the financial condition, operating performance and near term prospects of PDS. If the decline in value
is deemed to be other than temporary, we would recognize an impairment loss.
 
We own 100% of the preferred stock of Holocom
(see Note 3). Prior to impairment, this investment was accounted for at cost since we do not have the ability to exercise significant
influence over the operating and financial policies of Holocom.
 
Income (Loss) Per Share
 
Basic income (loss) per share includes
no dilution and is computed by dividing income (loss) available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution of securities that could share in
the earnings of an entity.
 
 
 

 8 
 

 
Patriot Scientific Corporation
Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements
 
At November 30, 2019 and 2018, potential
common shares of 1,600,000 related to our outstanding options were not included in the calculation of diluted loss per share as
we recorded a loss. Had we reported net income for the three and six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, no shares of common
stock would have been included in the calculation of diluted income per share using the treasury stock method.
 
In connection with our acquisition of Crossflo,
which became a part of PDSG, we issued 2,844,630 escrow shares that are contingent upon certain representations and warranties
made by Crossflo at the time of the merger agreement (see Note 6). We exclude these escrow shares from the basic loss per share
calculations and would have included the escrowed shares in the diluted income per share calculations if we reported net income.
 
Income Taxes
 
We follow authoritative guidance in accounting
for uncertainties in income taxes. This authoritative guidance prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement requirement for
the financial statement recognition of a tax position that has been taken or is expected to be taken on a tax return and also provides
guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. Under
this guidance, we may only recognize tax positions that meet a “more likely than not” threshold.
 
We follow authoritative guidance to evaluate
whether a valuation allowance should be established against our deferred tax assets based on the consideration of all available
evidence using a “more likely than not” standard. In making such judgments, significant weight is given to evidence
that can be objectively verified. We assess our deferred tax assets annually under more likely than not scenarios in which they
may be realized through future income.
 
With the exception for refundable alternative
minimum tax (“AMT”) credits, we have determined that it was more likely than not that all of our deferred tax assets
will not be realized in the future due to our continuing pre-tax and taxable losses. As a result of this determination, and with
the exception for the aforementioned refundable tax credits, we have recorded a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax
assets.
 
On December 22, 2017, the United States
Government passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Cuts Act”) that, among other provisions, has lowered the corporate
tax rate from 35% to 21%. In addition to applying the new lower corporate tax rate in 2018 and thereafter to any taxable income
we may have, the legislation affects the way we can use and carryforward net operating losses previously accumulated and results
in a revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. The Securities and
Exchange Commission staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”) which provides guidance regarding accounting
for the income tax effects of the Tax Cuts Act, including the impact of the Tax Cuts Act on deferred tax assets and liabilities
for financial statements issued in the reporting period that includes the enactment date of December 22, 2017. Given that our current
deferred tax assets, with the exception of those representing certain refundable tax credits, are offset by a full valuation allowance,
these changes had no net impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. However, if we become profitable, we will receive
a reduced benefit from such deferred tax assets.
 
Assessment of Contingent Liabilities
 
We are involved in various legal matters,
disputes, and patent infringement claims which arise in the ordinary course of our business. We accrue for any estimated losses
at the time when we can make a reliable estimate of such loss and it is probable that it has been incurred. By their very nature,
contingencies are difficult to estimate. We continually evaluate information related to all contingencies to determine that the
basis on which we have recorded our estimated exposure is appropriate.
 
 
 


 9 
 

 


Patriot Scientific Corporation
Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements
 
Intellectual Property Rights
 
PDS, our investment in affiliated company,
has historically relied on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and
licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We have seven U.S., nine European, and three Japanese patents
all of which expired between August 2009 and October 2016. These patents, while expired, may have certain retrospective statutory
benefits that will fully diminish six years after the patent expiration dates. On November 4, 2019, we announced that the Supreme
Court of the United States denied our petition for a writ of certiorari with respect to patent litigation previously before the
United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit that alleged infringement of the ‘336 patent against multiple defendants.
Based on this decision, we have halted all licensing efforts as we evaluate the future direction of the Company.
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)”, as amended ("ASC 842"), which modifies lease accounting for lessees to increase
transparency and comparability by recording lease assets and liabilities for operating leases and disclosing key information about
leasing arrangements. ASC 842 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2018. The Company adopted ASC 842 effective June 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective method and will not restate comparative
periods. As permitted under the transition guidance, the Company will carry forward the assessment of whether its contracts contain
or are leases, classification of its leases and remaining lease terms. Implementation of this guidance did not have a material
impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. We have elected the short-term lease recognition exemption for
all applicable classes of underlying assets. Short-term disclosures include only those leases with a term greater than one month
and less than twelve months. Short term leases are not recorded on the balance sheet and expense on short-term leases are recognized
on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The Company elected the “practical expedient package” as permitted under
ASC 842. Therefore, the Company has not reassessed whether any expired or existing contracts are, or contain, leases; the Company
has not reassessed the lease classification for any expired or existing leases; and the company has not reassessed initial direct
costs for any expired or existing leases. The Company currently leases office space on a month-to-month basis.
 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value
Measurement” (“ASU 2018-13”), which removes, modifies, and adds various disclosure requirements on fair value
measurements in Topic 820. ASU 2018-13 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2019. The amendments on changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable
inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied
prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption. All other amendments
should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented upon their effective date. Early adoption is permitted upon issuance
of this update. An entity is permitted to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of this update and delay
adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date. The Company does not expect a significant impact from adopting
this update on its consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 


 10 
 

 


Patriot Scientific Corporation
Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements
 
2. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash 
 
We follow authoritative guidance to account
for our marketable securities as held-to-maturity. Under this authoritative guidance, we are required to maximize the use of observable
inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. We determine fair value based on quoted prices when
available or through the use of alternative approaches, such as discounting the expected cash flows using market interest rates
commensurate with the credit quality and duration of the investment or valuations by third party professionals. The three levels
of inputs that we may use to measure fair value are:
 
Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active
markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities;
 
Level 2: Quoted prices in markets that
are not active or inputs which are observable, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability;
and
 
Level 3: Prices or valuation techniques
that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable (i.e. supported by little or no market
activity)
 
The following tables detail the fair value
measurements within the fair value hierarchy of our cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities:
 

 
 
 


 11 
 

 


Patriot Scientific Corporation
Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements
 

 
We purchase certificates of deposit with
varying maturity dates. The following tables summarize the purchase date maturities, gross unrealized gains or losses and fair
value of the certificates of deposit as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019:
 


  
November 30, 2019  (Unaudited) 

  
Cost  
Gross Unrealized Gains/(Losses)  
Fair Value 

Maturity 
   
   
  

Due in three months or less 
$850,000  
$–  
$850,000 

 

 
 
 


 12 
 

 


Patriot Scientific Corporation
Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements
 
3. Investment in Affiliated Companies
 
Phoenix Digital Solutions, LLC 
 
On June 7, 2005, we entered into a Master
Agreement (the “Master Agreement”) with TPL, and Charles H. Moore (“Moore”), the co-inventor of the technology
which is the subject of the MMP portfolio of microprocessor patents, pursuant to which the parties resolved all legal disputes
between them. Pursuant to the Master Agreement, we and TPL entered into the Limited Liability Company Operating Agreement of PDS
(the “LLC Agreement”) into which we and Moore contributed our rights to certain of our technologies.
 
We and TPL each own 50% of the membership
interests of PDS, and each member has the right to appoint one member of the three-member management committee. The two appointees
are required to select a mutually acceptable third member of the management committee. There had not been a third management committee
member since May 2010; however, as a result of our initiation of arbitration seeking the appointment of a third member, on December
16, 2014, an independent manager to the PDS management committee was selected by the arbitrator. Pursuant to the LLC Agreement,
we and TPL initially agreed to establish a working capital fund for PDS of $4,000,000, of which our contribution was $2,000,000.
The working capital fund was increased to a maximum of $8,000,000 as license revenues are achieved. We and TPL are obligated to
fund future working capital requirements at the discretion of the management committee of PDS in order to maintain working capital
of not more than $8,000,000. If the management committee determines that additional capital is required, neither we nor TPL are
required to contribute more than $2,000,000 in any fiscal year. No such contributions were made during the three and six months
ended November 30, 2019 and 2018. Distributable cash and allocation of profits and losses have been allocated to the members in
the priority defined in the LLC Agreement.
 
On July 11, 2012, we entered into the Program
Agreement with PDS, TPL, and Alliacense, and an Agreement (the “TPL Agreement”) with TPL. Pursuant to the Program Agreement,
PDS engaged Alliacense to negotiate MMP portfolio licenses and to pursue claims against violators of the MMP portfolio on behalf
of PDS, TPL, and the Company. The Program Agreement continued through the useful life of the MMP portfolio patents. Pursuant to
the TPL Agreement, we and TPL agreed to certain allocations of obligations in connection with the engagement of Alliacense. On
July 24, 2014, the Program Agreement was amended with PDS and Alliacense entering into the Amended Alliacense Services and Novation
Agreement (the “Novation Agreement”). Pursuant to the Novation Agreement, certain performance goals and incentives
were established for Alliacense. The Novation Agreement also provided for the addition of a second licensing company, which was
engaged on October 10, 2014, to complement the MMP licensing commercialization. However, Alliacense fulfilled only a portion of
its obligations under the Novation Agreement associated with the deployment of the second licensing company and on May 11, 2015,
Alliacense was terminated by PDS.
 
On August 10, 2016, PDS entered into an
agreement with Alliacense and MMP Licensing, LLC to settle matters relating to Alliacense’s non-performance under terms of
the Novation Agreement. The August 10, 2016 agreement required Alliacense to provide PDS’s second licensing company, Dominion
Harbor Group (“DHG”), with certain materials and to cooperate with reasonable discovery requests relating to infringement
litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. MMP Licensing, LLC will provide commercialization
services to PDS for the MMP portfolio with respect to certain companies. PDS and Alliacense have agreed to cause the arbitration
between the parties to be dismissed with prejudice. The August 10, 2016 agreement, and the agreement retaining DHG as PDS’s
second licensing company, will both expire on October 4, 2022. Terms of the settlement agreement required PDS to pay Alliacense
$84,000 within 24 hours after delivery of materials to PDS’s second licensing agent and to pay Alliacense $84,000 out of
subsequent recoveries. PDS paid Alliacense $84,000 on each of August 11, 2016 and October 3, 2016.
 
 
 


 13 
 

 


Patriot Scientific Corporation
Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements
 
During January 2013, TPL and Moore settled
their litigation. Terms of the settlement included the payment by PDS to Moore of a consulting fee of $250,000 for four years or
until the completion of all outstanding MMP litigation whichever came first. Per terms of the agreement, PDS paid Moore $150,000
on the settlement date and paid Moore $16,667 per month from August 2013 through January 2014 and $20,833 per month beginning February
2014 through January 2017.
  
Based on our analysis of current authoritative
accounting guidance with respect to our investment in PDS, we continue to account for our investment in PDS under the equity method
of accounting, and accordingly have recorded our share of PDS’s net loss during the three and six months ended November 30,
2019 of $29,007 and $73,319, respectively, and $14,743 and $29,523, respectively, for the three and six months ended November 30,
2018, as a decrease in our investment as “Equity in loss of affiliated company” in the accompanying condensed consolidated
statements of operations.
 
On March 20, 2013, TPL filed a petition
under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. On March 5, 2018, TPL’s Motion for Entry of Final Decree Closing Chapter
11 was granted. In the event we are required to provide funding to PDS that is not reciprocated by TPL, our ownership percentage
in PDS will increase and we will have a controlling financial interest in PDS, in which case, we will consolidate PDS in our condensed
consolidated financial statements. If we determine that it is appropriate to consolidate PDS, we would measure the assets, liabilities
and noncontrolling interests of PDS at their fair values at the date that we have the controlling financial interest.
 
PDS’s balance sheets at November 30, 2019 and May 31,
2019 and statements of operations for the three months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018 are as follows:
 
Balance Sheets
 
Assets:
 

 
Liabilities and Members’ Equity:
 

 
 
 


 14 
 

 


Patriot Scientific Corporation
Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements
 
Statements of Operations:
 

 
We review our investment in PDS to
determine whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The primary
factors we consider in our determination are the financial condition, operating performance and near term prospects of PDS.
If a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, we would recognize an impairment loss.
 
Holocom, Inc.
 
We currently own 2,100,000 shares of preferred
stock, equivalent to an approximate 46% ownership interest on an after converted basis, in Holocom, Inc. (“Holocom”),
a California corporation that manufactures products that protect information transmitted over secure networks. The shares are convertible
at our option into shares of Holocom’s common stock on a one-to-one basis. The preferred stock entitles us to receive non-cumulative
dividends at the per annum rate of $0.04 per share, when and if declared by the Board of Directors of Holocom, as well as a liquidation
preference of $0.40 per share, plus an amount equal to all declared but unpaid dividends.
 
In 2010, we determined that the inability
of Holocom to meet its business plan, raise capital, and the general economic environment were indicators of impairment on our
investment and we wrote-off our cost basis investment in Holocom. At November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019, our investment in Holocom
was valued at $0.
 
4.
Income Taxes
 
On December 22, 2017, the United States
Government passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Cuts Act”) that, among other provisions, has lowered the corporate
tax rate from 35% to 21%. In addition to applying the new lower corporate tax rate in 2018 and thereafter to any taxable income
we may have, the legislation affects the way we can use and carryforward net operating losses previously accumulated and results
in a revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. The Securities and
Exchange Commission staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”) which provides guidance regarding accounting
for the income tax effects of the Tax Cuts Act, including the impact of the Tax Cuts Act on deferred tax assets and liabilities
for financial statements issued in the reporting period that includes the enactment date of December 22, 2017. Given that our current
deferred tax assets, with the exception of those representing certain refundable tax credits, are offset by a full valuation allowance,
these changes had no net impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. However, if we become profitable, we will receive
a reduced benefit from such deferred tax assets.
 
 
 


 15 
 

 


Patriot Scientific Corporation
Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements
 
5. Stockholders’ Equity
 
Share-based Compensation
 
Summary of Assumptions and Activity
 
The fair value of share-based awards to
employees and directors is calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, even though this model was developed to estimate
the fair value of freely tradable, fully transferable options without vesting restrictions, which differ significantly from our
stock options.
 
The Black-Scholes
model also requires subjective assumptions, including future stock price volatility and expected time to exercise, which greatly
affect the calculated values. The expected term of options granted is derived from historical data on employee exercises and post-vesting
employment termination behavior. The risk-free rate selected to value any particular grant is based on the U.S. Treasury rate that
corresponds to the pricing term of the grant effective as of the date of the grant. The expected volatility is based on the historical
volatilities of our common stock. These factors could change in the future, affecting the determination of share-based compensation
expense in future periods.
 
A summary of option
activity as of November 30, 2019 and changes during the six months then ended, is presented below:
 

 
The aggregate
intrinsic value represents the differences in market price at the close of the quarter ($0.0025) per share on November 29, 2019)
and the exercise price of outstanding, in-the-money options (those options with exercise prices below $0.0025 per share) on November
30, 2019.
 
 
 


 16 
 

 


Patriot Scientific Corporation
Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements
 
6. Commitments and Contingencies 
 
Litigation 
 
Patent Litigation 
 
We, TPL, and PDS (collectively referred
to as “Plaintiffs”) are Plaintiffs were in proceedings in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
where the Plaintiffs allege infringement of the US 5,809,336 patent (the “‘336 patent”) by: Huawei Technologies
Co. Ltd., LG Electronics, Nintendo Co. Ltd., Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., and ZTE Corporation (collectively referred to as the
“Defendants”). This litigation was proceeding in front of District Court Judge Vince Chhabria.
 
These proceedings relate to the
proceedings filed by the Plaintiffs in February 2008 in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California alleging
infringement of the US 5,440,749 patent (the “‘749 patent”), the US 5,530,890 patent (the “‘890 patent”)
and the ‘336 patent against Amazon.com Inc., Barnes & Noble Inc., Garmin Ltd., Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., Kyocera
Corporation, LG Electronics, Nintendo Co. Ltd., Novatel Wireless Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Sierra Wireless Inc., and
ZTE Corporation. We have settled with all defendants except those named in the first paragraph to this footnote. On September 18,
2015, a Markman hearing was held before U.S. Magistrate Judge Grewal and, on September 22, 2015, he issued a claim construction
report and recommendation. On September 25, 2015, as a result of the claim construction report and recommendation, Plaintiffs and
defendants, with the exception of Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., (“Huawei”) agreed to stay all proceedings pending resolution
of Plaintiffs’ objections to the claim construction report and recommendation. Plaintiffs further stipulated that, under
the claim construction provided by the report and recommendation, defendants’ products do not infringe the ‘336 patent,
and, in the event that the Court does not materially modify the claim construction, Plaintiffs and defendants ask that the Court
enter a final judgment of non-infringement. After Plaintiffs and Huawei filed opposing letter briefs with the Court, U.S. Magistrate
Judge Grewal stayed the action against Huawei pending resolution of Plaintiffs’ objections to the claim construction. On
October 6, 2015, Plaintiffs filed objections to the claim construction with District Court Judge Chhabria. Judge Chhabria rejected
those objections on November 9, 2015. Based on that order, the parties stipulated to a judgment of non-infringement as to the ‘336
patent and such judgment was entered on November 13, 2015.
 
On December 7, 2015, Plaintiffs filed notices
of appeal with the U.S. Federal Circuit appealing the district court’s claim construction. Plaintiffs filed their opening
appellate brief on March 10, 2016. Defendants filed their response brief on May 23, 2016, with Plaintiffs filing their reply brief
on June 23, 2016. On March 3, 2017, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit rendered its decision modifying the claim
construction that was issued in September 2016 by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California and has remanded
the matter to the District Court for further proceedings.
 
On May 23, 2017, a case management conference
was held in front of District Court Judge Chhabria, who ordered that Plaintiffs amend their infringement contentions on or before
June 16, 2017. Judge Chhabria further ordered that Defendants submit any motion for summary judgment based on the amended infringement
contentions and the modified claim construction by August 1, 2017. On June 5, 2017, the law firm of Banys, P.C., who had served
as local counsel for PDS, withdrew as counsel. PDS continued to be represented by the law firm of Nelson Bumgardner, P.C. On June
16, 2017, Plaintiffs timely amended their infringement contentions. On July 13, 2017, all remaining counsel for each of Patriot,
TPL, and PDS moved to withdraw as counsel and further moved to extend all currently pending case deadlines by 60 days for Plaintiffs
to seek new counsel.
 
On September 13, 2017, the law firm of Bunsow De Mory LLP was
entered before the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California as successor counsel in representation of Patriot,
PDS, and TPL.
 

The Defendants moved for summary judgment
of non-infringement on September 29, 2017, and the Court held a hearing on Defendants’ motion on November 30, 2017. The Court
granted Defendants’ motion and entered judgment of non-infringement on December 13, 2017.
 
Defendant Samsung submitted a bill of costs
seeking $30,170 in taxable costs in the underlying district court proceedings; Plaintiffs filed an objection to significant portions
of that request. On March 1, 2018, the Clerk of the District Court taxed costs in the amount $829.
 
 


 17 
 

 


Patriot Scientific Corporation
Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements
 
Plaintiffs filed notices of appeal in these
district court matters on January 5, 2018. The appeals were docketed and consolidated under lead case No. 18-1439, captioned as
Technology Properties Limited v. Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd in the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Oral
argument proceeded on February 4, 2019. The Court affirmed the lower court’s determination without written opinion
pursuant to Federal Circuit Rule 36 on February 6, 2019. Plaintiffs filed a Petition for Rehearing En Banc on March 8, 2019
which was denied by the Court on April 10, 2019.
 
On September 6, 2019 Plaintiffs filed a
petition for a writ of certiorari with the Supreme Court of the United States as a result of the United States Court of Appeals
outcome.
 
On November 4, 2019, we announced that
the Supreme Court of the United States denied our petition for a writ of certiorari with respect to patent litigation previously
before the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit that alleged infringement of the ‘336 patent against the
Defendants (see Note 1).
 
Employment Contracts
 
In connection with Cliff
Flowers’ appointment as the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, and commencing on September 17, 2007, we
entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Flowers for an initial 120-day term if not terminated pursuant to the
agreement, with an extension period of one year and on a continuing basis thereafter. On December 30, 2016, we entered into
an amended and restated employment agreement with Mr. Flowers. Pursuant to the amended December 30, 2016 agreement, if
Mr. Flowers was terminated without cause or resigns with good reason any time after two years of continuous employment,
he was entitled to receive an amount equal to 1.25 times his annual base salary. Mr. Flowers was also entitled to certain
payments upon a change of control of the Company if the surviving corporation did not retain him. All such payments were
conditional upon the execution of a general release. On October 1, 2019, Mr. Flowers and the Company signed a Separation
Agreement and General Release of all Claims (“Separation Agreement”). Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Mr.
Flowers resigned on September 30, 2019 and agreed to severance compensation of $327,750, in lieu if any amounts owed under
his amended and restated employment agreement, payable in seven equal monthly installments commencing October 30, 2019. As of
November 30, 2019, we have a remaining liability of $246,698 included in Accrued expenses and other in the
accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. There were no known disagreements with Mr. Flowers
regarding our operations, policies or practices. The Board appointed Carlton M. Johnson to assume all management roles on an
interim basis.
 
Guarantees and Indemnities
 
We have made certain guarantees and indemnities,
under which we may be required to make payments to a guaranteed or indemnified party. We indemnify our directors, officers, employees
and agents to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of the State of Delaware. The duration of the guarantees and indemnities
varies, and in many cases is indefinite. These guarantees and indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential
future payments we could be obligated to make. Historically, we have not been obligated to make any payments for these obligations
and no liabilities have been recorded for these guarantees and indemnities in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
 
Escrow Shares
 
On August 31, 2009, we gave notice to
the former shareholders of Crossflo and Union Bank of California (the “Escrow Agent”) under Section 2.5 of the
Agreement and Plan of Merger between us and Crossflo (the “Agreement”), outlining damages incurred by us in
conjunction with the acquisition of Crossflo, and seeking the return of 2,844,630 shares of our common stock held by the
Escrow Agent. Subsequently, former shareholders of Crossflo representing a majority of the escrowed shares responded in
protest to our claim, delaying the release of the escrowed shares until a formal resolution is reached. In the event we
fail to prevail in our claim against the escrowed shares, we may be obligated to deposit into escrow approximately $256,000
of cash consideration due to the decline in our average stock price over the one year escrow period, calculated in accordance
with the Section 2.5 of the Agreement. We have evaluated the potential for loss regarding our claim and believe that it
is probable that the resolution of this issue will not result in a material obligation to the Company, although there is no
assurance of this. Accordingly, we have not recorded a liability for this matter.
 
 


 18 
 

 
Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations
 
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS
 
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes
certain statements constituting “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”),
and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements concerning our beliefs, plans, objectives, goals,
expectations, anticipations, estimates, intentions, operations, future results and prospects, and we rely on the “safe harbor”
provisions in those laws. We are including this statement for the express purpose of availing ourselves of the protections of such
safe harbors with respect to all such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this report reflect our current
views with respect to future events and financial performance. In this report, the words “anticipates,” “believes,”
“expects,” “intends,” “future,” “estimates,” “may,” “could,”
“should,” “would,” “will,” “shall,” “propose,” “continue,”
“predict,” “plan” and similar expressions are generally intended to identify certain of the forward-looking
statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date
made. Any forward-looking statement is not a guarantee of future performance.
 
These forward-looking statements are subject
to certain risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a
result of various factors, including, but not limited to those discussed under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of
the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2019 and in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q. Additionally, there may be other risks that are otherwise described from time to time in the reports that we file
with the SEC. You should read this report completely with the understanding that our actual results may differ materially from
what we expect. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revision of these forward-looking
statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
Overview 
 
Historically, we have been a licensing
company and entered into a number of agreements to facilitate the pursuit of unlicensed users of our intellectual property. On
November 4, 2019, we announced that the Supreme Court of the United States denied our petition for a writ of certiorari with respect
to patent litigation previously before the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit that alleged infringement of
the ‘336 patent against multiple defendants (see Footnote 6, Commitments and Contingencies, in the accompanying unaudited
condensed consolidated financial statements). Based on this decision, we have halted all licensing efforts as we evaluate the future
direction of the Company as we do not have any potential sources of revenue and our joint venture, PDS, has not generated significant
license revenues since September 2013.
 
There are a number of uncertainties associated
with our financial projections that could increase our projected expenses, which would further accelerate cash usage. Additionally,
we do not expect to realize satisfactory cash from operations over the foreseeable future and we will be required to seek additional
financing to continue our operations. We will also require additional financing to develop or acquire new lines of business. We
have no current arrangements with respect to any additional financing. Consequently, there can be no assurance that any additional
financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, will be available when needed. Further, any additional equity financing,
if secured, may involve substantial dilution to our then existing stockholders.
 
 
 


 19 
 

 
One opportunity we are evaluating is the
potential of establishing a company that develops a data capturing platform that could be implemented throughout the drug development
process utilizing blockchain technologies in collaboration with Artius Bioconsulting LLC (“Artius”), under an agreement
signed on April 12, 2019. During the quarter ended November 30, 2019, Artius completed and submitted their feasibility report to
us and we are currently evaluating next steps. However, there are no assurances that we will be successful in developing this blockchain
based business. Further, in the event the next steps in the development of a blockchain based business are undertaken, it is expected
that significant additional funding from external sources will be required. If we are unable to develop or acquire new lines of
business, such as those involving blockchain technologies, and/or we are unable to raise additional capital, we will be forced
to liquidate the Company in a dissolution under Delaware law or seek protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
We currently anticipate, based on currently operations, that our cash on hand will not satisfy our operational and capital requirements
through twelve months from the date of filing on this Form 10-Q.
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
 
Our condensed consolidated financial statements
have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which require us
to make estimates and judgments that significantly affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and
related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates, and such differences
could affect the results of operations reported in future periods. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect
our most significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements.
  
1.        Investments
in Marketable Securities
 
We classify our investments in marketable
securities in certificates of deposit at the time of purchase as held-to-maturity and reevaluate such classifications at each balance
sheet date. Held-to-maturity investments consist of securities that we have the intent and ability to retain until maturity. These
securities are recorded at cost and adjusted for the amortization of premiums and discounts, which approximates fair value. Cash
inflows and outflows related to the sale and purchase of investments are classified as investing activities in our condensed consolidated
statements of cash flows.
 
2.        Investment
in Affiliated Companies
 
We have a 50% interest in PDS. We account
for our investment using the equity method of accounting since the investment provides us the ability to exercise significant influence,
but not control, over the investee. Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if we have an ownership interest in the
voting stock of the investee of between 20% and 50%, although other factors, such as representation on the investee’s Board
of Directors, are considered in determining whether the equity method of accounting is appropriate. Under the equity method of
accounting, the investment, originally recorded at cost, is adjusted to recognize our share of net earnings or losses of the investee
and is recognized in the condensed consolidated statements of operations in the caption “Equity in loss of affiliated company”
and also is adjusted by contributions to and distributions from PDS.
 
PDS, as an unconsolidated equity investee,
recognizes revenue from technology license agreements at the time a contract is entered into, the license method is determined
(paid-in-advance or on-going royalty), performance obligations under the license agreement are satisfied, and the realization of
revenue is assured, which is generally upon the receipt of the license proceeds. PDS may at times enter into license agreements
whereby contingent revenues are recognized as one or more contractual milestones are met.
 
We review our investment in PDS to determine
whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The primary factors we consider
in our determination are the financial condition, operating performance and near term prospects of PDS. If a decline in value
is deemed to be other than temporary, we would recognize an impairment loss.
  
 
 


 20 
 

 

We own 100% of the preferred stock of Holocom.
Prior to impairment, this investment was accounted for at cost since we did not have the ability to exercise significant influence
over the operating and financial policies of Holocom.
 
3.       Income Taxes
 
We follow authoritative guidance in accounting
for uncertainties in income taxes. This authoritative guidance prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement requirement for
the financial statement recognition of a tax position that has been taken or is expected to be taken on a tax return and also provides
guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. Under
this guidance we may only recognize tax positions that meet a “more likely than not” threshold.
 
We follow authoritative guidance to evaluate
whether a valuation allowance should be established against our deferred tax assets based on the consideration of all available
evidence using a “more likely than not” standard. In making such judgments, significant weight is given to evidence
that can be objectively verified. We assess our deferred tax assets annually under more likely than not scenarios in which they
may be realized through future income.
 
With the exception for refundable alternative
minimum tax (“AMT”) credits, we have determined that it was more likely than not that all of our deferred tax assets
will not be realized in the future due to our continuing pre-tax and taxable losses. As a result of this determination, and with
the exception for the aforementioned refundable tax credits, we have recorded a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax
assets.
 
On December 22, 2017, the United States
Government passed new tax legislation that, among other provisions, lowered the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. In addition
to applying the new lower corporate tax rate in 2018 and thereafter to any taxable income we may have, the legislation affects
the way we can use and carryforward net operating losses previously accumulated and results in a revaluation of deferred tax assets
and liabilities recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. Given that our current deferred tax assets, with the exception
of those representing certain refundable tax credits, are offset by a full valuation allowance, these changes had no net impact
on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. However, if we become profitable, we will receive a reduced benefit from such deferred
tax assets.
  
4.       Assessment of
Contingent Liabilities
 
We are involved in various legal matters,
disputes, and patent infringement claims which arise in the ordinary course of our business. We accrue for any estimated losses
at the time when we can make a reliable estimate of such loss and it is probable that it has been incurred. By their very nature,
contingencies are difficult to estimate. We continually evaluate information related to all contingencies to determine that the
basis on which we have recorded our estimated exposure is appropriate.
 
Results of Operations 
 
Comparison of the Three Months Ended November 30, 2019 and
the Three Months Ended November 30, 2018.
 

 
 
 


 21 
 

 
Selling, general and administrative expenses
increased approximately $344,000 from approximately $144,000 for the three months ended November 30, 2018 to approximately $487,000
for the three months ended November 30, 2019. The increase consisted primarily of approximately $321,000 in higher compensation
expense mostly pertaining to severance amounts for Mr. Flowers. Effective September 30, 2019, Mr. Flowers resigned and Mr. Flowers
and the Company signed a Separation Agreement and General Release of all Claims (“Separation Agreement”). Pursuant
to the Separation Agreement, Mr. Flowers agreed to severance compensation of $327,750, in lieu if any amounts owed under his amended
and restated employment agreement, payable in seven equal monthly installments commencing October 30, 2019. This increase was supplemented
by increases in legal fees and feasibility costs of Artius, partially offset by approximately $21,000 in reduced board fees due
to a board member volunteering to cease taking board fees.
 

 
Total other expenses increased from approximately
$8,000 for the three months ended November 30, 2018 to approximately $26,000 for the three months ended November 30, 2019. The
increase primarily consisted of an increase in the equity in the loss of PDS resulting from an increase in PDS legal expenses combined
with lower interest income. Our investment in PDS continues to be accounted for in accordance with the equity method of accounting
for investments.
 

 
Loss before income taxes increased from
approximately $(152,000) for the three months ended November 30, 2018 to approximately $(513,000) for the three months ended November
30, 2019 for the reasons explained in the preceding “Selling, general and administrative” and “Other income (expense)”
comparisons.
 
Comparison of the Six Months Ended November 30, 2019 and
the Six Months Ended November 30, 2018.
 

 
Selling, general and administrative expenses
increased from approximately $347,000 for the six months ended November 30, 2018 to approximately $790,000 for the six months ended
November 30, 2019. The increase primarily pertained to higher compensation expense mostly pertaining to severance for Mr. Flowers
as mentioned above.
 
 
 


 22 
 

 

 
Total other expenses increased from approximately
$16,000 for the six months ended November 30, 2018 to $64,000 for the six months ended November 30, 2019. The increase consisted
of an increase in the equity in the loss of PDS resulting from an increase in PDS legal expenses. Our investment in PDS continues
to be accounted for in accordance with the equity method of accounting for investments.
 
 

 
Loss before income taxes increased from
approximately $(363,000) for the six months ended November 30, 2018 to approximately $(855,000) for the six months ended November
30, 2019 for the reasons explained in the preceding “Selling, general and administrative” and “Other income (expense)”
comparisons.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
Liquidity
 
Our cash and cash equivalents and marketable
security balances decreased from approximately $1,537,000 as of May 31, 2019 to approximately $963,000 as of November 30, 2019.
We also have restricted cash of approximately $199,000 and $177,000 as of May 31, 2019 and November 30, 2019, respectively. Total
current assets decreased from approximately $1,764,000 as of May 31, 2019 to approximately $1,247,000 as of November 30, 2019.
Total current liabilities were approximately $228,000 and $442,000 as of May 31, 2019 and November 30, 2019, respectively. The
change in our working capital position as of November 30, 2019 as compared with May 31, 2019 is primarily due losses incurred due
to the inability of PDS to generate revenues and provide partnership distributions sufficient to cover our operating expenses.
  
In addition, on November 4, 2019, we announced
that the Supreme Court of the United States denied our petition for a writ of certiorari with respect to patent litigation previously
before the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit that alleged infringement of the ‘336 patent against multiple
defendants. As a result, we currently do not have any potential sources of capital from PDS. Based on this decision, we have halted
all licensing efforts as we evaluate the future direction of the Company as we do not have any potential sources of revenue and
PDS has not generated significant license revenues since September 2013.
 
 
 


 23 
 

 
There are a number of uncertainties associated
with our financial projections that could increase our projected expenses, which would further accelerate cash usage. Additionally,
we do not expect to realize satisfactory cash from operations over the foreseeable future and we will be required to seek additional
financing to continue our operations. We will also require additional financing to develop or acquire new lines of business. We
have no current arrangements with respect to any additional financing. Consequently, there can be no assurance that any additional
financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, will be available when needed. Further, any additional equity financing,
if secured, may involve substantial dilution to our then existing stockholders.
 
One opportunity we are evaluating is the
potential of establishing a company that develops a data capturing platform that could be implemented throughout the drug development
process utilizing blockchain technologies in collaboration with Artius under an agreement signed on April 12, 2019. During the
quarter ended November 30, 2019, Artius completed and submitted their feasibility report to us and we are currently evaluating
next steps. However, there are no assurances that we will be successful in developing this blockchain based business. Further,
in the event the next steps in the development of a blockchain based business are undertaken, it is expected that significant additional
funding from external sources will be required. If we are unable to develop or acquire new lines of business, such as those involving
blockchain technologies, and/or we are unable to raise additional capital, we will be forced to liquidate the Company in a dissolution
under Delaware law or seek protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We currently anticipate, based on currently
operations, that our cash on hand will not satisfy our operational and capital requirements through twelve months from the date
of filing on this Form 10-Q.
 
The above matters raise substantial doubt
regarding our ability to continue as a going concern.
 
Cash Flows From Operating Activities

 
Cash used in operating activities was
approximately $596,000 and $425,000 for the six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The principal
components of the current period amount were primarily attributable to a net loss of approximately $856,000 combined with an
increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets of approximately $26,000 offset by an increase in accounts payable and
accrued expenses of approximately $213,000, and the equity in loss of affiliated company of approximately $73,000. The
principal components of the prior year period amount were primarily attributable to a net loss of approximately $365,000
combined with an increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets of approximately $46,000 and an decrease in accounts
payable and accrued expenses of approximately $44,000, offset by the equity in loss of affiliated company of approximately
$30,000.
 
Cash Flows From Investing Activities
 
Cash provided by investing activities for
the six months ended November 30, 2019 was $750,000 attributable to net maturities of marketable securities. No cash was provided
or used in investing activities in the same prior year period.
 
Capital Resources
 
The condensed consolidated financial statements
have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern. At November 30, 2019, the Company has an accumulated
deficit of $61,982,387, and has incurred recurring losses and used significant amounts of cash in its operations. As of November
30, 2019, the Company had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $963,000 and working capital of
approximately $805,000 and we currently have no potential sources of cash. We will also require additional financing to develop
or acquire new technologies or lines of business. If we are unable to develop or acquire new lines of business, such as the blockchain
technologies, and we are unable to raise additional capital, we will be forced to halt our operations. We anticipate, based on
currently proposed plans and assumptions, that our cash on hand will not satisfy our operational and capital requirements through
twelve months from the date of filing on this Form 10-Q.
 
 
 


 24 
 

 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)”, as amended ("ASC 842"), which modifies lease accounting for lessees to increase
transparency and comparability by recording lease assets and liabilities for operating leases and disclosing key information about
leasing arrangements. ASC 842 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2018. The Company adopted ASC 842 effective June 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective method and will not restate comparative
periods. As permitted under the transition guidance, the Company will carry forward the assessment of whether its contracts contain
or are leases, classification of its leases and remaining lease terms. Implementation of this guidance did not have a material
impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. We have elected the short-term lease recognition exemption for
all applicable classes of underlying assets. Short-term disclosures include only those leases with a term greater than one month
and twelve months or less. Short term leases are not recorded on the balance sheet and expense on short-term leases are recognized
on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The Company elected the “practical expedient package” as permitted under
ASC 842. Therefore, the Company has not reassessed whether any expired or existing contracts are, or contain, leases; the Company
has not reassessed the lease classification for any expired or existing leases; and the company has not reassessed initial direct
costs for any expired or existing leases. The Company currently leases office space on a month-to-month basis.
 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value
Measurement” (“ASU 2018-13”), which removes, modifies, and adds various disclosure requirements on fair value
measurements in Topic 820. ASU 2018-13 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2019. The amendments on changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable
inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied
prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption. All other amendments
should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented upon their effective date. Early adoption is permitted upon issuance
of this update. An entity is permitted to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of this update and delay
adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date. The Company does not expect a significant impact from adopting
this update on its consolidated financial statements.
 
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk
 
Not applicable.
 
Item 4. Controls and Procedures 
 
As required by Rule 13a-15(b) under
the Exchange Act, as of November 30, 2019, the end of the period to which this quarterly report relates, we have carried out an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act). This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including our Interim Chief Executive Officer and our Interim Chief Financial Officer.
 
Disclosure controls and procedures are
controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted
under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules
and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management,
including the Interim Chief Executive Officer and our Interim Chief Financial Officer as appropriate, to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated,
can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating
the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.  Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and
procedures as of November 30, 2019, our management, with the participation of our Interim Chief Executive Officer/Interim
Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
 
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
There were no significant changes to our
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during
our most recently completed fiscal quarter that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal
control over financial reporting.
 
 
 


 25 
 

 
PART II- OTHER INFORMATION 
 
Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
 
Footnote 6, Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation,
in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 1A. Risk Factors
 
In addition to the other information set
forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of
our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2019 and those listed below, which could materially affect our business,
financial condition or future results.  Such risks are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks
and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our
business, financial condition or operating results..
 
If We Are Unable To Develop Or Acquire
New Lines of Business, And/Or We Are Unable To Raise Additional Capital, We Will Be Forced To Liquidate The Company In A Dissolution
Under Delaware Law Or Seek Protection Under The Provisions Of The U.S. Bankruptcy Code And, In Either Event, It Is Unlikely That
Stockholders Would Receive Any Value For Their Shares.
 
As of November 30, 2019, the Company had
cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $963,000 and working capital of approximately $805,000. Historically,
we have been a licensing company and entered into a number of agreements to facilitate the pursuit of unlicensed users of our intellectual
property. On November 4, 2019, we announced that the Supreme Court of the United States denied our petition for a writ of certiorari
with respect to patent litigation previously before the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit that alleged infringement
of the ‘336 patent against multiple defendants (see Footnote 6, Commitments and Contingencies, in the accompanying unaudited
condensed consolidated financial statements). Based on this decision, we have halted all licensing efforts as we evaluate the future
direction of the Company as we do not have any potential sources of revenue and our joint venture, PDS, has not generated significant
license revenues since September 2013.
 
There are a number of uncertainties associated
with our financial projections that could increase our projected expenses, which would further accelerate cash usage. Additionally,
we do not expect to realize satisfactory cash from operations over the foreseeable future and we will be required to seek additional
financing to continue our operations. We will also require additional financing to develop or acquire new lines of business. We
have no current arrangements with respect to any additional financing. Consequently, there can be no assurance that any additional
financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, will be available when needed. Further, any additional equity financing,
if secured, may involve substantial dilution to our then existing stockholders.
 
One opportunity we are evaluating is the
potential of establishing a company that develops a data capturing platform that could be implemented throughout the drug development
process utilizing blockchain technologies in collaboration with Artius under an agreement signed on April 12, 2019. However, there
are no assurances that we will be successful in developing this blockchain based business. Further, in the event the next steps
in the development of a blockchain based business are undertaken, it is expected that significant additional funding from external
sources will be required. If we are unable to develop or acquire new lines of business, such as those involving blockchain technologies,
and/or we are unable to raise additional capital, we will be forced to liquidate the Company in a dissolution under Delaware law
or seek protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In either of these events, we might realize significantly
less from our assets than the values at which they are carried on our financial statements. The funds resulting from the liquidation
of our assets would be used first to satisfy obligations to creditors before any funds would be available to pay our stockholders,
and any shortfall in the proceeds would directly reduce the amounts available for distribution, if any, to our creditors and to
our stockholders. In the event we are required to liquidate under Delaware law or the federal bankruptcy laws, it is highly unlikely
that stockholders would receive any value for their shares.
 
 
 


 26 
 

 
Our Auditors Have Expressed Substantial
Doubt About Our Ability To Continue As a Going Concern.
 
The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
on our May 31, 2019 consolidated financial statements includes an explanatory paragraph stating that the recurring losses and negative
cash flows from operations, combined with our substantial reliance on cash generated by PDS, raise substantial doubt about our
ability to continue as a going concern. The condensed consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might
result from the outcome of this uncertainty.
 
We Have Identified A Significant
Deficiency In Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, If We Fail To Maintain Effective Internal Controls Over Financial
Reporting, The Price Of Our Common Stock May Be Adversely Affected.
 
We are required to establish and maintain
appropriate internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once
established, could adversely impact our public disclosures regarding our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Any failure of these controls could also prevent us from maintaining accurate accounting records and discovering accounting errors
and financial fraud. 
 
In the course of completing its assessment
of internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2019, management did not identify any material weaknesses but did identify
a significant deficiency in the number of personnel available to serve the Company’s accounting function. Specifically,
management believes that we may not be able to adequately segregate responsibility over financial transaction processing and reporting.
A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting,
that is less severe than a material weakness yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of the
Company’s financial reporting. Although we are unable to remediate the significant deficiency with current personnel,
we are mitigating its potential impact, primarily through greater involvement of our Board of Directors in the review and monitoring
of financial transaction processing and reporting.
 
Our Common Stock Is Quoted On The OTC
Pink Current Information, Which Could Adversely Affect The Market Price And Liquidity Of Our Common Stock. 
 
Our common stock is quoted on OTC Pink
Current Information. The quotation of our shares on such marketplace may result in a less liquid market available for existing
and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have
a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future.
 
There can be no assurance that there will
be an active market for our shares of common stock either now or in the future or that stockholders will be able to liquidate their
investment or liquidate it at a price that reflects the value of the business. As a result, our stockholders may not find purchasers
for our securities should they to desire to sell them.
 
The Market For Our Stock Is Subject
To Rules Relating To Low-Priced Stock (“Penny Stock”) Which May Limit Our Ability To Raise Capital.
 
Our Common Stock is currently subject to
the “penny stock rules” adopted pursuant to Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. In general, the penny stock rules apply
to non-NASDAQ or non-national stock exchange companies whose common stock trades at less than $5.00 per share or which have tangible
net worth of less than $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). Such rules require, among
other things, that brokers who trade “penny stock” on behalf of persons other than “established customers”
complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning
trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document, quote information, broker’s commission information and rights
and remedies available to investors in penny stocks. Many brokers have decided not to trade “penny stock” because of
the requirements of the penny stock rules, and as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such
securities is limited. The “penny stock rules,” therefore, may have an adverse impact on the market for our Common
Stock and may affect our ability to raise additional capital if we decide to do so.
 
 
 


 27 
 

 
Our Share Price Could Decline As A Result
Of Short Sales.
 
When an investor sells stock that he does
not own, it is known as a short sale. The seller, anticipating that the price of the stock will go down, intends to buy stock to
cover his sale at a later date. If the price of the stock goes down, the seller will profit to the extent of the difference between
the price at which he originally sold it less his later purchase price. Short sales enable the seller to profit in a down market.
Short sales could place significant downward pressure on the price of our Common Stock. Penny stocks which do not trade on an exchange,
such as our Common Stock, are particularly susceptible to short sales.
 
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of
Proceeds
 
None.
 
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities
 
None.
 
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
 
None.
 
Item 5. Other Information
 
None.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 28 
 

 
Item 6. Exhibits
 
Those exhibits marked with an asterisk
(*) refer to exhibits filed herewith. The other exhibits are incorporated herein by reference, as indicated in the following list.
 
Those exhibits marked with a cross (†)
refer to management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.
 


Exhibit No.
Document

 

 
* Filed herewith.
 
 


 29 
 

 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


DATED:  January 14, 2020

PATRIOT SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
 
/S/ CARLTON M. JOHNSON JR.
 
 
____________________________________
Carlton M. Johnson Jr. Interim Chief Executive
Officer and Interim
        Chief Financial Officer
(Duly Authorized and Principal Executive and
Principal Financial
        Officer)
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 30 





