
10-Q
1
tm201354d3_10q.htm
FORM 10-Q







 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-Q
 
x        QUARTERLY
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the quarterly period ended December
31, 2019
 
OR
 
o        TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
[For the transition period from _____________________
to ___________________________]
 
Commission File No. 000-31157
 
INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS AND SUPPORT, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified
in its charter)
 


PENNSYLVANIA
 
23-2507402

(State or Other Jurisdiction
 
(I.R.S. Employer

of Incorporation or Organization)
 
Identification No.)

 
 
 

720 Pennsylvania Drive, Exton, Pennsylvania
 
19341

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
 
(Zip Code)

 
(610) 646-9800
(Registrant’s Telephone Number,
Including Area Code)
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 


Title of each class
Trading Symbol(s)
Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share
ISSC
NASDAQ Global Market 

 
Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x
No o
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant
to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
the Registrant was required to submit such files). Yes x No o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant
is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth
company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting
company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 


o Large accelerated filer
o Accelerated filer

 
 

o Non-accelerated filer
x Smaller reporting company

 
 

o Emerging growth company
 

 
If
an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the Registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for
complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes o
No x
 
As of January 31, 2020, there were 16,982,092
shares of the Registrant’s Common Stock, with par value of $.001 per share, outstanding.
 

 
 


 
 

 
INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS AND SUPPORT, INC.
FORM 10-Q December 31, 2019
INDEX
 

 


 
 

 
PART I–FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Item 1- Financial Statements
 
INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS AND SUPPORT, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of these statements.
 


 1 
 

 
INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS AND SUPPORT, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS
(unaudited)
 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of these statements.
 

 2 
 

 
INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS AND SUPPORT, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(unaudited)
 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of these statements.
 

 3 
 

 
INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS AND SUPPORT, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS’
EQUITY
(unaudited)
 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of these statements.
 
 

 4 
 

 
INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS AND SUPPORT, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
(unaudited)
 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of these statements.
 

 5 
 

 
INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS AND SUPPORT, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
(unaudited)
 
1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
Description of the Company
 
Innovative Solutions and Support, Inc. (the “Company,”
 “IS&S,” “we” or “us”) was incorporated in Pennsylvania on February 12, 1988. The Company
operates in one business segment as a systems integrator that designs, develops, manufactures, sells and services air data equipment,
engine display systems, standby equipment, primary flight guidance, autothrottles and cockpit display systems for retrofit applications
and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). The Company supplies integrated Flight Management Systems (“FMS”),
Flat Panel Display Systems (“FPDS”), FPDS with Autothrottle, air data equipment, Integrated Standby Units (“ISU”),
ISU with Autothrottle and advanced Global Positioning System (“GPS”) receivers that enable reduced carbon footprint
navigation.
 
The Company has continued to position itself as a system integrator,
which capability provides the Company with the potential to generate more substantive orders over a broader product base. The strategy,
as both a manufacturer and integrator, is designed to leverage the latest technologies developed for the computer and telecommunications
industries into advanced and cost-effective solutions for the general aviation, commercial air transport, United States Department
of Defense (“DoD”)/governmental and foreign military markets. This approach, combined with the Company’s industry
experience, is designed to enable IS&S to develop high-quality products and systems, to reduce product time to market, and
to achieve cost advantages over products offered by its competitors.
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial
statements are presented pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”)
in accordance with the disclosure requirements for the quarterly report on Form 10-Q and, therefore, do not include all of the
information and footnotes required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) for complete
annual financial statements. In the opinion of Company management, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect
all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to state fairly the results for the interim periods presented.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2019 is derived from the audited financial statements of the Company.
Operating results for the three months ended December 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction
with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes of the Company included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019.
 
The Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
Use of Estimates
 
The Company prepares its condensed consolidated financial statements
in conformity with GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts
of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. Estimates are used in accounting for, among other items, long term contracts,
allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory obsolescence, product warranty cost liabilities, income taxes, engineering and material
costs on Engineering Development Contracts (“EDC”) programs, percentage-of-completion on EDC, recoverability of long-lived
assets, stock-based compensation expense, self-insurance reserves, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from
those estimates.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
Highly liquid investments, purchased with an original maturity
of three months or less, are classified as cash equivalents. Cash equivalents at December 31, 2019 and September 30, 2019 consist
of cash on deposit and cash invested in money market funds with financial institutions.
 
Property and Equipment
 
Property
and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is provided using an accelerated method over the estimated useful lives of the assets
(the lesser of three to seven years or over the lease term), except for the manufacturing facility and the corporate airplanes,
which are depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of thirty-nine years and ten years, respectively.
Major additions and improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs that do not improve or extend the life of assets
are charged to expense as incurred.
 

 6 
 

 
 
 
Fair Value of Financial
Instruments
 
The net carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts
receivable, and accounts payable approximate their fair value because of the short-term nature of these instruments. For financial
assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, fair value is the price the Company would receive to sell an
asset or pay to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction with a market participant at the measurement date. A three-level
fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value as follows:
 
Level 1 — Unadjusted quoted
prices that are available in active markets for the identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date.
 
Level 2 — Other observable
inputs available at the measurement date, other than quoted prices included in Level 1, either directly or indirectly, including:
 
·        Quoted
prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets;
·        Quoted
prices for identical or similar assets in non-active markets;
·        Inputs
other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability; and
·        Inputs
that are derived principally from or corroborated by other observable market data.
 
Level 3 — Unobservable inputs
that cannot be corroborated by observable market data and reflect the use of significant management judgment. These values
are generally determined using pricing models for which the assumptions utilize management’s estimates of market participant
assumptions.
 
The following table sets forth by level within the fair value
hierarchy the Company’s financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis as of
December 31, 2019 and September 30, 2019, according to the valuation techniques the Company used to determine their fair values.
 


  
Fair Value Measurement on December 31, 2019 

  
Quoted Price in  
Significant Other  
Significant 

  
Active Markets for  
Observable  
Unobservable 

  
Identical Assets  
Inputs  
Inputs 

  
(Level 1)  
(Level 2)  
(Level 3) 

Assets 
    
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents: 
    
    
   

Money market funds 
$21,517,492  
$           -  
$           - 

 


  
Fair Value Measurement on September 30, 2019 

  
Quoted Price in  
Significant Other  
Significant 

  
Active Markets for  
Observable  
Unobservable 

  
Identical Assets  
Inputs  
Inputs 

  
(Level 1)  
(Level 2)  
(Level 3) 

Assets 
    
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents: 
    
    
   

Money market funds 
$21,450,242  
$           -  
$           - 

 
Long-Lived Assets
 
The Company assesses the impairment of long-lived assets in
accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”)
Topic 360-10, “Property, Plant and Equipment.” This statement requires that long-lived assets be reviewed for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In addition,
long-lived assets to be disposed of should be reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. The
Company considers historical performance and future estimated results in its evaluation of potential impairment and then compares
the carrying amount of the asset to estimated future cash flows expected to result from use of the asset. If the carrying amount
of the asset exceeds the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows, the Company measures the amount of the impairment by
comparing the carrying amount of the asset to its fair value. The estimation of fair value is generally measured by discounting
expected future cash flows. No impairment charges were recorded during the three months ended December 31, 2019 or 2018.
 

 7 
 

 
Revenue Recognition
 
The Company enters into sales arrangements with customers that,
in general, provide for the Company to design, develop, manufacture and deliver large flat-panel display systems, flight information
computers and advanced monitoring systems that measure and display critical flight information, including data relative to aircraft
separation, airspeed, altitude, and engine and fuel data measurements.
 
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
 
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”)
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” which provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition
model for all contracts with customers, and contains principles to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it
is recognized. The model supersedes most existing revenue recognition guidance, and also requires enhanced revenue-related
disclosures. Under the new standard and its related amendments (collectively known as “ASC 606”), revenue is recognized
when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services. The amount of revenue recognized will reflect the consideration
that the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the standard requires disclosure of the
nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
 
The Company adopted ASC 606 on October 1, 2018 using the modified
retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption. The adoption of ASC 606 represents a change in
accounting principle. In accordance with ASC 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange
for these goods or services. To achieve this core principle, the Company applies the following five steps:
 
1)    Identify
the contract with a customer
 
The Company’s contract with its customers typically is
the form of a purchase order issued to the Company by its customers and, to a lesser degree, in the form of purchase order issued
in connection with a formal contract executed with a customer. For purpose of accounting for revenue under ASC 606, a contract
with a customer exists when (i) the Company enters into an enforceable contract with a customer that defines each party’s
rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred and identifies the payment terms related to these goods or services, (ii)
the contract has commercial substance and, (iii) the Company determines that collection of substantially all consideration for
goods or services that are transferred is probable based on the customer’s intent and ability to pay the promised consideration.
The Company applies judgment in determining the customer’s ability and intention to pay, which is based on a variety of factors
including the customer’s historical payment experience or, in the case of a new customer, published credit and financial
information pertaining to the customer.
 
2)    Identify
the performance obligations in the contract
 
Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified
based on the goods or services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer
can benefit from the good or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties
or from the Company, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the goods or services is separately
identifiable from other promises in the contract. Most of our revenue is derived from purchases under which we provide a specific
product or service and, as a result, there is only one performance obligation. In the event that a contract includes multiple promised
goods or services, such as an EDC contract which includes both engineering services and a resulting product shipment, the Company
must apply judgment to determine whether promised goods or services are capable of being distinct and distinct in the context of
the contract. In these cases, the Company considers whether the customer could, on its own or together with other resources that
are readily available from third parties, produce the physical product using only the output resulting from the Company’s
completion of engineering services. If the customer cannot produce the physical product, then the promised goods or services are
accounted for as a combined performance obligation.
 
3)    Determine
the transaction price
 
The transaction price is determined based on the consideration
to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer. To the extent the transaction
price includes variable consideration, the Company estimates the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the
transaction price utilizing either the expected value method or the most likely amount method depending on the nature of the variable
consideration. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in the Company’s judgment, it is probable
that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. None of the Company’s contracts
as of December 31, 2019 included variable consideration.
 

 8 
 

 
4)    Allocate
the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract
 
If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the
entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. The Company determines standalone selling price based
on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through
past transactions, the Company estimates the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market
conditions as well as the cost of the goods or services and the Company’s normal margins for similar performance obligations.
 
5)    Recognize
revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation
 
The Company satisfies performance obligations either over time
or at a point in time as discussed in further detail below. Revenue is recognized at the time the related performance obligation
is satisfied by transferring a promised good or service to a customer. Revenue
from products transferred to customers at a point in time accounted for 99.6% and 95% of our revenue for the quarter ended December
31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and is typically recognized at the time of shipment of products to the customer. The remaining
revenue results from EDC contracts and is recognized over time using an input measure (e.g., costs incurred to date relative to
total estimated costs at completion) to measure progress. Contract costs include material, components and third-party avionics
purchased from suppliers, direct labor, and overhead costs.
 
At December 31, 2019, we had $6,332,036 of remaining performance
obligations, which we also refer to as total backlog. We expect to recognize the majority of our remaining performance obligations
as revenue over the next 12 months with the remaining balance recognized thereafter.
 
Contract Estimates
 
Accounting for performance obligations in long-term contracts
that are satisfied over time involves the use of various techniques to estimate progress towards satisfaction of the performance
obligation. The Company typically measures progress based on costs incurred compared to estimated total contract costs. Contract
cost estimates are based on various assumptions to project the outcome of future events that often span more than a single year.
These assumptions include the amount of labor and labor costs, the quantity and cost of raw materials used in the completion of
the performance obligation, and the complexity of the work to be performed.
 
As a significant change in one or more of these estimates could
affect the profitability of our contracts, we review and update our contract-related estimates regularly. We recognize adjustments
in estimated profit on contracts under the cumulative catch-up method. Under this method, the impact of the adjustment on profit
recorded to date is recognized in the period the adjustment is identified. Revenue and profit in future periods of contract performance
is recognized using the adjusted estimate. If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss
on the contract, we recognize the total loss in the quarter it is identified.
 
The impact of adjustments in contract estimates on our operating
earnings can be reflected in either operating costs and expenses or revenue. The aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates
did not change our revenue and operating earnings (and diluted earnings per share) for the three-month period ended December 31,
2019. Therefore, no adjustment on any contract was material to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the three-month
period ended December 31, 2019.
 
Financial Statement Impact of Adopting ASC 606
 
ASC 606 permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to
each prior reporting period presented (full retrospective method), or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially
applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application (modified retrospective method). The Company adopted ASC 606
on October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method, and the adoption resulted in no adjustment to the Company’s
retained earnings as of the adoption date and there were no significant changes in the Company’s consolidated statements
of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as a result of the adoption of ASC 606 on October 1, 2018 compared
to if the Company had continued to recognize revenues under previous guidance. Additionally, there was no change to the Company’s
assets or liabilities as of December 31, 2018 as a result of the adoption of ASC 606 on October 1, 2018 compared to if the Company
had continued to recognize revenues under previous guidance. The adoption of ASC 606 had no impact on the Company’s cash
flows from operations.
 

 9 
 

 
Contract Balances
 
Contract assets consist of the right to consideration in exchange
for product offerings that we have transferred to a customer under the contract. Contract liabilities primarily relate to consideration
received in advance of performance under the contract. The following table reflects the Company’s contract assets and contract
liabilities:
 

 
Customer Service Revenue
 
The
Company enters into sales arrangements with customers for the repair or upgrade of its various products that are not under warranty.
The Company’s customer service revenue and cost of sales are included in product sales and product cost of sales,
respectively, on the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The Company’s customer service revenue and cost
of sales for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 respectively are as follows:
 
 
Income Taxes
 
Income taxes are recorded in accordance with ASC Topic 740,
 “Income Taxes” (“ASC Topic 740”), which utilizes a balance sheet approach to provide for income taxes.
Under this method, the Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for temporary differences between the financial reporting
basis and the tax basis of the Company’s assets, liabilities, and expected benefits of utilizing net operating losses (“NOL”)
and tax credit carry-forwards. The impact on deferred taxes of changes in tax rates and laws, if any, are applied to the years
during which temporary differences are expected to be settled, and are reflected in the consolidated financial statements in the
period of enactment. At the end of each interim reporting period, the Company prepares an estimate of the annual effective income
tax rate and applies that annual effective income tax rate to ordinary year-to-date pre-tax income for the interim period. Specific
tax items discrete to a particular quarter are recorded in income tax expense for that quarter. The estimated annual effective
tax rate used in providing for income taxes on a year-to-date basis may change in subsequent periods.
 
Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if,
based on the consideration of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will
not be realized. Significant weight is given to evidence that can be verified objectively, and significant management judgment
is required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against net deferred tax assets. The Company evaluates deferred income
taxes on a quarterly basis to determine if a valuation allowance is required by considering available evidence. Deferred tax assets
are recognized when expected future taxable income is sufficient to allow the related tax benefits to reduce taxes that would otherwise
be payable. The sources of taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets are future reversals
of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and credit carryforwards,
taxable income in carry-back years, and tax planning strategies which are both prudent and feasible. The Company’s current
balance of the deferred tax valuation allowance is recorded against all of its federal and state deferred tax assets. The Company
will continue to assess all available evidence during future periods to evaluate any changes to the realization of its deferred
tax assets. If the Company were to determine that it would be able to realize additional federal or state deferred tax assets in
the future, it would make an adjustment to the valuation allowance which would reduce the provision for income taxes.
 
The accounting for uncertainty in income taxes requires a more
likely than not threshold for financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in
a tax return. The Company records a liability for the difference between the (i) benefit recognized and measured for financial
statement purposes and (ii) the tax position taken or expected to be taken on the Company’s tax return. To the extent that
the Company’s assessment of such tax positions changes, the change in estimate is recorded in the period in which the determination
is made. The Company has elected to record any interest or penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as income tax expense.
 

 10 
 

 
The Company files a consolidated United States federal income
tax return. The Company prepares and files tax returns based on the interpretation of tax laws and regulations, and records estimates
based on these judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business, the tax returns are subject to examination by various
taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities, and the Company
records a liability when it is probable that there will be an assessment. The Company adjusts the estimates periodically as a result
of ongoing examinations by and settlements with the various taxing authorities, and changes in tax laws, regulations and precedent.
The consolidated tax provision of any given year includes adjustments to prior years’ income tax accruals that are considered
appropriate, and any related estimated interest. Management believes that it has made adequate accruals for income taxes. Differences
between estimated and actual amounts determined upon ultimate resolution, individually or in the aggregate, are not expected to
have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, but could possibly be material to its consolidated
results of operations or cash flow of any one period.
 
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), which made broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited
to, (1) reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 34 percent to 21 percent; (2) bonus depreciation that will allow for
full expensing of qualified property; (3) elimination of the corporate alternative minimum tax (“AMT”) and changing
how existing AMT credits can be realized; (4) a new limitation on deductible interest expense; (5) the repeal of the domestic production
activity deduction; and (6) limitations on NOLs generated after December 31, 2017, to 80 percent of taxable income.
 
The Tax Act reduced the corporate tax rate to 21 percent, effective
January 1, 2018. Consequently, we recorded a provisional adjustment to decrease related to DTAs and DTLs with a corresponding net
adjustment to deferred income tax expense of $321,038 for the period ended December 31, 2017. This expense is offset fully by a
change in the valuation allowance. We completed our accounting for the income tax effects of certain elements of the Tax Act as
of the quarter ended December 31, 2018.
 
Engineering Development
 
The Company invests a large percentage of its sales on engineering
development, both Research and Development (“R&D”) and EDC. At December 31, 2019, approximately 20% of the Company’s
employees were engineers engaged in various engineering development projects. Total engineering development expense is comprised
of both internally funded R&D and product development and design charges related to specific customer contracts. Engineering
development expense consists primarily of payroll-related expenses of employees engaged in EDC projects, engineering related product
materials and equipment, and subcontracting costs. R&D charges incurred for product design, product enhancements, and future
product development are expensed as incurred. Product development and design charges related to specific customer contracts are
charged to cost of sales-EDC based on estimated progress towards satisfaction of the performance obligation under ASC 606.
 
Treasury Stock
 
We account for treasury stock purchased under the cost method
and include treasury stock as a component of shareholders’ equity. Treasury stock purchased with intent to retire (whether
or not the retirement is actually accomplished) is charged to common stock.
 
Comprehensive Income
 
Pursuant to FASB ASC Topic 220, “Comprehensive Income,”
the Company is required to classify items of other comprehensive income by their nature in a financial statement and display the
accumulated balance of other comprehensive income separately from retained earnings and additional paid-in capital in the equity
section of its condensed consolidated balance sheets. For the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, comprehensive income
consisted of net income only, and there were no items of other comprehensive income for any of the periods presented.
 
Share-Based Compensation
 
The Company accounts for share-based compensation under FASB
ASC Topic 718, “Stock Compensation” (“ASC Topic 718”), which require the Company to measure the
cost of employee or non-employee director services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date
fair value of the award using an option pricing model. The Company recognizes such cost over the period during which an employee
or non-employee director is required to provide service in exchange for the award.
 
Warranty
 
The Company offers warranties on some products of various lengths,
however the standard warranty is twenty-four months. Our standard warranties typically only cover repairs of product defects and,
although the Company offers extended warranties, there have been no sales of extended warranties to date. As a result, none of
the Company’s warranties represent performance obligations under ASC 606. At the time of shipment, the Company establishes
a reserve for estimated costs of warranties based on its best estimate of the amounts necessary to settle future and existing claims
using historical data on products sold as of the balance sheet date. The length of the warranty period, the product’s failure
rates, and the customer’s usage affect warranty cost. If actual warranty costs differ from the Company’s estimated
amounts, future results of operations could be affected adversely. Warranty cost is recorded as cost of sales, and the reserve
balance recorded as an accrued expense. While the Company maintains product quality programs and processes, its warranty obligation
is affected by product failure rates and the related corrective costs. If actual product failure rates and/or corrective costs
differ from the estimates, the Company revises the estimated warranty liability accordingly.
 

 11 
 

 
Self-Insurance Reserves
 
Since
January 1, 2014, the Company has self-insured a significant portion of its employee medical insurance. The Company maintains
a stop-loss insurance policy that limits its losses both on a per employee basis and an aggregate basis. Liabilities associated
with the risks that are retained by the Company are estimated based upon actuarial assumptions such as historical claims experience,
demographic factors and other actuarial assumptions. The Company estimated the total medical claims incurred but not reported
and the Company believes that it has adequate reserves for these claims at December 31, 2019 and September 30, 2019, respectively.
However, the actual value of such claims could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions.
At December 31, 2019 and September 30, 2019, the estimated liability for medical claims incurred but not reported was approximately
$51,000 and $55,700 respectively. The Company has recorded the excess of funded premiums over estimated claims incurred but not
reported of approximately $190,100 and $123,100 as a current asset in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets as
of December 31, 2019 and September 30, 2019, respectively.
 
Concentrations
 
Major Customers and Products
 
For the three months ended December 31, 2019, two customers,
Pilatus Aircraft Ltd (“Pilatus”) and Empresa Nacional de Aeronautica, accounted for 32% and 22% of net sales, respectively.
For the three months ended December 31, 2018, three customers, Air Transport Services Group, Pilatus, and Deutsche Post DHL Group,
accounted for 30%, 21% and 12% of net sales, respectively.
 
Major Suppliers
 
The Company buys several of its components from sole source
suppliers. Although there are a limited number of suppliers of particular components, management believes other suppliers could
provide similar components on comparable terms.
 
For the three months ended December 31, 2019, the Company had
one supplier that accounted for 10% of the Company’s total inventory related purchases. For the three months ended December
31, 2018, the Company had one supplier that accounted for 10% of the Company’s total inventory related purchases.
 
Concentration of Credit
Risk
 
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to
concentration of credit risk consist principally of cash balances and accounts receivable. The Company invests its excess cash
where preservation of principal is the major consideration. Cash balances are maintained with two major banks. Balances on deposit
with certain money market accounts and operating accounts may exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation limits. The Company’s
customer base consists principally of companies within the aviation industry. The Company requests advance payments and/or letters
of credit from customers that it considers to be credit risks.
 

 12 
 

 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
See Note 1, “Financial Statement Impact of Adopting ASC
606,” to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the impact resulting from the adoption
of ASC 606.
 

On October 1, 2019, we adopted FASB ASU 2016-02, “Leases
(Topic 842)” (“ASU 2016-02”) as modified, which replaces existing lease accounting guidance. This pronouncement
is intended to provide enhanced transparency and comparability by requiring lessees to record “right-of-use” assets
and corresponding lease liabilities on the balance sheet for most leases. Expenses associated with leases continue to be recognized
in a manner similar to previous accounting guidance. We adopted this pronouncement utilizing the transition practical expedient
added by the FASB, which eliminated the requirement that entities apply the new lease standard to the comparative periods presented
in the year of adoption. This adoption approach will result in a balance sheet presentation that will not be comparable to the
prior period in the first year of adoption. At adoption, we recognized a right-to-use asset and corresponding lease liability
of $130,018 on our consolidated balance sheet. Additional required disclosures have been included with Note 7 – Leases of
the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Such adoption did not have an impact on our liquidity or results of operations.
 
In June 2016, FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments
 – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instrument (“ASU 2016-13”). ASU 2016-13
replaces the incurred loss impairment methodology in current U.S. GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses
and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. ASU 2016-13
is effective for SEC small business filers for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022. Management is currently assessing
the impact ASU 2016-13 will have on the Company.
 
In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, “Stock-based
Compensation: Improvements to Nonemployee Share-based Payment Accounting” (“ASU 2018-07”), which amends the existing
accounting standards for share-based payments to nonemployees. ASU 2018-07 aligns much of the guidance on measuring and classifying
nonemployee awards with that of awards to employees. Under the new guidance, the measurement of nonemployee equity awards is fixed
on the grant date. ASU 2018-07 becomes effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and early adoption is permitted but no
earlier than an entity’s adoption date of Topic 606. Entities will apply ASU 2018-07 by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment
to retained earnings as of the beginning of the annual period of adoption. We adopted ASU 2018-07 effective October 1, 2018 and
the implementation had no material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, “Fair Value
Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework – Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement”
(“ASU 2018-13”), which modifies the disclosures on fair value measurements by removing the requirement to disclose
the amount and reason for transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and the policy for timing of such transfers.
ASU 2018-13 expands the disclosure requirements for Level 3 fair value measurements, primarily focused on changes in unrealized
gains and losses included in other comprehensive income. For public entities, the standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim
periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for any removed or modified disclosures
and adoption of the additional disclosures can be delayed until the effective date. The Company does not currently expect the adoption
of ASU 2018-13 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
 
As
new accounting pronouncements are issued, we will adopt those that are applicable.
 
2.
Supplemental Balance Sheet Disclosures
 
Inventories
 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out)
or net realizable value, net of write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory, and consist of the following:
 

 

 13 
 

 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets
 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets consist of the following:
 

 
 
Property and equipment
 
Property and equipment, net consists of the following:
 

 
Depreciation and amortization related to property and equipment
was approximately $96,644 and $107,300 for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The corporate airplanes
are utilized primarily in support of product development. The Pilatus PC-12 airplane, one of the Company’s two corporate
airplanes, has been depreciated to its estimated salvage value.
 
Other assets
 
Other assets consist of the following:
 

 
Intangible assets consist of licensing and certification rights
which are amortized over a defined number of units. No impairment charges were recorded in the three months ended December 31,
2019 and 2018.
 
Intangible asset amortization expense was approximately $4,800
and $7,200 for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The timing of future amortization expense is not
determinable because the intangible assets are being amortized over a defined number of units.
 
Other
non-current assets as of December 31, 2019 and September 30, 2019 include the security deposit for an airplane hangar, and
a deposit for medical claims required under the Company’s medical plan. In addition, other non-current assets as of December
31, 2019 and September 30, 2019 includes $26,850 and $29,541, respectively, of prepaid software licenses that will be earned
upon the shipment of a certain product to a customer. Other non-current assets amortization expense was approximately $2,691
and $1,615 for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
 

 14 
 

 
Accrued expenses
 
Accrued expenses consist of the following:
 

 
 
Warranty cost and accrual information for the three months ended
December 31, 2019 is highlighted below:
 
 
3. Income Taxes
 
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Act,
which made broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited to, (1) reducing the U.S. federal corporate
tax rate from 34 percent to 21 percent; (2) bonus depreciation that will allow for full expensing of qualified property; (3) elimination
of the corporate AMT and changing how existing AMT credits can be realized; (4) a new limitation
on deductible interest expense; (5) the repeal of the domestic production activity deduction; and (6) limitations on NOLs generated
after December 31, 2017, to 80 percent of taxable income.
 
Income tax effects resulting from changes in tax laws are accounted
for by the Company in accordance with the authoritative guidance, which requires that these tax effects be recognized in the period
in which the law is enacted and the effects are recorded as a component of the provision for income taxes from continuing operations.
 
The Tax Act made significant changes to the U.S. corporate income
tax system, including reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% as of January 1, 2018. The Tax Act also
eliminated the previous carryback period for NOLs of two years and permits an indefinite carryforward period.
 
No income tax expense was recorded in the three months ended
December 31, 2019 and 2018.
 
The effective tax rate for the three months ended December 31,
2019 was 0% and differs from the statutory tax rate primarily due to net operating loss realization. This loss realization both
decreased the deferred tax asset and the valuation allowance. For the three months ended December 31, 2019 the valuation allowance
decreased by approximately $55,000.
 
The effective tax rate for the three months ended December 31,
2018 was 0% and differs from the statutory tax rate primarily due to net operating loss realization. This loss realization both
decreased the deferred tax asset and the valuation allowance. For the three months ended December 31, 2018 the valuation allowance
decreased by approximately $162,000.
 
4. Shareholders’ Equity and Share-based Payments
 
At December 31, 2019, the Company’s Amended and Restated
Articles of Incorporation provides the Company authority to issue 75,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred
stock.
 
Share-based compensation
 
The Company accounts for share-based compensation under the
provisions of ASC Topic 718 by using the fair value method for expensing stock options and stock awards.
 

 15 
 

 
Total compensation expense was $0 for the three-month periods
ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
 
The Company has two share-based compensation plans, the 2009
Stock-Based Incentive Compensation Plan (the “2009 Plan”), which the shareholders approved on March 12, 2009, and the
2019 Stock-Based Incentive Compensation Plan (the “2019 Plan”), which the shareholders approved on April 2, 2019. The
2009 Plan terminated on January 20, 2019 with respect to the grant of any new awards.
 
2009 Stock-Based Incentive Compensation
Plan
 
The 2009 Plan authorized the grant of stock appreciation rights,
restricted stock, options and other equity-based awards. Options granted under the 2009 Plan may be either “incentive stock
options” as defined in section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), or nonqualified
stock options, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Compensation Committee”).
 
Subject to an adjustment necessary upon a stock dividend, recapitalization,
forward split or reverse split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination, repurchase or share exchange, extraordinary
or unusual cash distribution, or similar corporate transaction or event, the maximum number of shares of common stock available
for awards under the 2009 Plan was 1,200,000, all of which could be issued pursuant to awards of incentive stock options. In addition,
the 2009 Plan provided that no more than 300,000 shares may be awarded in any calendar year to any employee as a performance-based
award under Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
If there is any change in the Company’s corporate capitalization,
the Compensation Committee must proportionately and equitably adjust the number and type of shares of common stock covered by awards
then outstanding under the 2009 Plan, the number and type of shares of common stock available under the 2009 Plan, the exercise
or grant price of any award, or if deemed appropriate, make provision for a cash payment with respect to any outstanding award,
provided that no adjustment may be made that would adversely affect the status of any award that is intended to be a performance-based
award under Section 162(m) of the Code, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee. In addition, the Compensation
Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of any awards, including any performance goals, in recognition of unusual
or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or any subsidiary, or in response to changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting
principles, provided that no adjustment may be made that would adversely affect the status of any award that is intended to be
a performance-based award under Section 162(m) of the Code, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee.
 
Total
compensation expense related to options issued to employees under the 2009 Plan was $0 for each of the three-month periods ended
December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The compensation expense under the 2009 Plan related to shares issued to
non-employee members of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) was  $0 for the three-month
periods ended December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. Total compensation expense associated with the 2009 Plan was $0 for the three-month periods ended December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
 
2019 Stock-Based Incentive Compensation
Plan
 
The 2019 Plan authorizes the grant of stock appreciation rights,
restricted stock, options and other equity-based awards. Options granted under the 2019 Plan may be either “incentive stock
options” as defined in section 422 of the Code or nonqualified stock options, as determined by the Compensation Committee.
 
Subject to an adjustment necessary upon a stock dividend, recapitalization,
forward split or reverse split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination, repurchase or share exchange, extraordinary
or unusual cash distribution, or similar corporate transaction or event, the maximum number of shares of common stock available
for awards under the 2019 Plan is 750,000, plus 139,691 shares of common stock that were authorized but unissued under the 2009
Plan as of the effective date of the 2019 Plan (i.e., April 2, 2019), all of which may be issued pursuant to awards of incentive
stock options. In addition, the 2019 Plan provides that no more than 300,000 shares may be awarded in any calendar year to any
employee. As of December 31, 2019, there were 889,691 shares of common stock available for awards under the 2019 Plan.
 
If any award is forfeited, terminates or otherwise is settled
for any reason without an actual distribution of shares to the participant, the related shares of common stock subject to such
award will again be available for future grant. Any shares tendered by a participant in payment of the exercise price of an option
or the tax liability with respect to an award (including, in any case, shares withheld from any such award) will not be available
for future grant under the 2019 Plan. If there is any change in the Company’s corporate capitalization, the Compensation
Committee must proportionately and equitably adjust the number and kind of shares of common stock which may be issued in connection
with future awards, the number and kind of shares of common stock covered by awards then outstanding under the 2019 Plan, the aggregate
number and kind of shares of common stock available under the 2019 Plan, any applicable individual limits on the number of shares
of common stock available for awards under the 2019 Plan, the exercise or grant price of any award, or if deemed appropriate, make
provision for a cash payment with respect to any outstanding award. In addition, the Compensation Committee may make adjustments
in the terms and conditions of any awards, including any performance goals, in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting
the Company or any subsidiary, or in response to changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles.
 
Total compensation expense related to options issued to employees
under the 2019 Plan was $0 for the three-month period ended December 31, 2019. The compensation expense under the 2019
Plan related to shares issued to non-employee members of the Board was $0 for the three-month period ended December 31,
2019. Total compensation expense associated with the 2019 Plan was $0 for the three-month period ended December 31, 2019.
 

 16 
 

 
5. Earnings Per Share
 

 
Earnings per share (“EPS”) are calculated pursuant
to FASB ASC Topic 260, “Earnings Per Share.” Basic EPS excludes potentially dilutive securities and is computed
by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS is computed assuming
the conversion or exercise of all dilutive securities such as employee stock options.
 
The number of incremental shares from the assumed exercise of
stock options is calculated by using the treasury stock method. As of December 31, 2019, and 2018, there were 550,834 options to
purchase common stock outstanding, respectively. The average outstanding diluted shares calculation excludes options with an exercise
price that exceeds the average market price of shares during the period.
 
For the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively,
0 and 550,834 diluted weighted-average shares outstanding were excluded from the computation of diluted EPS because the effect
would be anti-dilutive.
 
6. Contingencies
 
In the ordinary course of business, the Company is at times
subject to various legal proceedings and claims. The Company does not believe any such matters that are currently pending will,
individually or in the aggregate, have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position.
 


17
 

 
7. Leases
 
On October 1, 2019, we adopted FASB ASU 2016-02, “Leases
(Topic 842)” (“ASU 2016-02”). This pronouncement requires lessees to record "right-of-use" assets and
corresponding lease liabilities on the balance sheet for most leases. We adopted this pronouncement utilizing the transition practical
expedient which eliminated the requirement that entities apply the new lease standard to the comparative periods presented in the
year of adoption.
 
As part of our adoption, we elected to utilize the package of
practical expedients permitted under the new standard, which allowed us to not reassess: (a) whether an existing contract is or
contains a lease, (b) the classification for existing leases and (c) initial direct costs. Further, as permitted by the standard,
we made an accounting policy election not to record right-of-use assets or lease liabilities for leases with an initial term of
12 months or less. Instead, consistent with previous accounting guidance, we will recognize payments for such leases in the statement
of operations on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
 
We lease real estate and equipment under various operating leases.
A lease exists when a contract or part of a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of
time in exchange for consideration. In determining whether a lease exists, we consider whether a contract provides us with both:
(a) the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the identified asset and (b) the right to direct
the use of the identified asset.
 
Some of our leases include base rental periods coupled with
options to renew or terminate the lease, generally at our discretion. In evaluating the lease term, we consider whether we are
reasonably certain to exercise such options. To the extent a significant economic incentive exists to exercise an option, that
option is included within the lease term. However, based on the nature of our lease arrangements, options generally do not provide
us with a significant economic incentive and are therefore excluded from the lease term for the majority of our arrangements.
 
Our leases typically include a combination of fixed and variable
payments. Fixed payments are generally included when measuring the right-of-use asset and lease liability. Variable payments, which
primarily represent payments based on usage of the underlying asset, are generally excluded from such measurement and expensed
as incurred. In addition, certain of our lease arrangements may contain a lease coupled with an arrangement to provide other services,
such as maintenance, or may require us to make other payments on behalf of the lessor related to the leased asset, such as payments
for taxes or insurance. As permitted by ASC 842, we have elected to account for these non-lease components together with the associated
lease component if included in the lease payments. This election has been made for each of our asset classes.
 
The measurement of "right-of-use" assets and lease
liabilities requires us to estimate appropriate discount rates. To the extent the rate implicit in the lease is readily determinable,
such rate is utilized. However, based on information available at lease commencement for our leases, the rate implicit in the lease
is not known. In these instances, we utilize an incremental borrowing rate, which represents the rate of interest that we would
pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term.
 
The following table presents the lease-related assets and liabilities
reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2019:
 

 
Rent expense and cash paid for various operating leases aggregate
$21,430 for the three months ended December 31, 2019. The weighted average remaining lease term is 1.3 years and the weighted average
discount rate is 5.0% as of December 31, 2019.
 
Future minimum lease payments under operating leases are as
follows at December 31, 2019:
 

 

 18 
 

 
Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations 
 
CAUTIONARY
STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This report contains forward-looking statements within the
meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These forward-looking
statements are based largely on current expectations and projections about future events and trends affecting the business, are
not guarantees of future performance, and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.
In this report, the words “anticipates,” “believes,” “may,” “will,” “estimates,”
 “continues,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “forecasts,” “expects,” “plans,”
 “could,” “should,” “would,” “is likely” and similar expressions, as they relate
to the business or to its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but they are not exclusive means of
identifying them. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to “IS&S,” the “Registrant,”
the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” are to Innovative Solutions and Support, Inc.
and its consolidated subsidiaries.
 
The forward-looking statements in this report are only predictions,
and actual events or results may differ materially. In evaluating such statements, a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors
could cause actual results, performance, financial condition, cash flows, prospects and opportunities to differ materially from
those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include those set
forth in Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our Annual Report on Form 10-K and the following factors:
 


·
market acceptance of the Company’s ThrustSense® Integrated PT6 Autothrottle, PC-12 Autothrottle, Vmca Mitigation and Hot Start Protection capabilities, flat panel display systems, NextGen Flight Deck and COCKPIT/IP® or other planned products or product enhancements;

·
continued market acceptance of the Company’s air data systems and products;

·
the competitive environment and new product offerings from competitors;

·
difficulties in developing and producing the Company’s ThrustSense® Integrated PT6 Autothrottle, PC-12 Autothrottle, Vmca Mitigation and Hot Start Protection capabilities, NextGen Flight Deck, COCKPIT/IP® Flat Panel Display System or other planned products or product enhancements;

·
the deferral or termination of programs or contracts for convenience by customers;

·
the ability to service the international market;

·
the availability of government funding;

·
the impact of general economic trends on the Company’s business;

·
the ability to gain regulatory approval of products in a timely manner;

·
delays in receiving components from third-party suppliers;

·
the bankruptcy or insolvency of one or more key customers;

·
protection of intellectual property rights;

·
the ability to respond to technological change;

·
failure to retain/recruit key personnel;

·
risks related to succession planning;

·
a cyber security incident;

·
risks related to our self-insurance program;

·
potential future acquisitions;

·
the costs of compliance with present and future laws and regulations;

·
changes in law, including changes to corporate tax laws in the United States and the availability of certain tax credits; and

·
other factors disclosed from time to time in the Company’s filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).

 
Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws,
the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
future events, or otherwise after the date of this report. Results of operations in any past period should not be considered indicative
of the results to be expected for future periods. Fluctuations in operating results may result in fluctuations in the price of
the Company’s common stock.
 
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly
release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the
date of this report, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The forward-looking statements in this document are
intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by Sections 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities
Act”), and 21E of the Exchange Act.
 
Investors
should also be aware that while the Company, from time to time, communicates with securities analysts, it is against its policy
to disclose any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, shareholders should
not assume that the Company agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement
or report. Furthermore, the Company has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others.
Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are
not the responsibility of the Company.
 

 19 
 

 
Company Overview
 
Innovative Solutions and Support, Inc. (the “Company,”
 “IS&S,” “we” or “us”) was incorporated in Pennsylvania on February 12, 1988. The Company
operates in one business segment as a systems integrator that designs, develops, manufactures, sells and services air data equipment,
engine display systems, standby equipment, primary flight guidance, autothrottles and cockpit display systems for retrofit applications
and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). The Company supplies integrated Flight Management Systems (“FMS”),
Flat Panel Display Systems (“FPDS”), Autothrottle Systems, air data equipment, Integrated Standby Units (“ISU”)
and advanced Global Positioning System (“GPS”) receivers that enable reduced carbon footprint navigation.
 
The Company has continued to position itself as a system integrator,
which provides the Company with the capability and potential to generate more substantive orders over a broader product base. This
strategy, as both a manufacturer and integrator, is designed to leverage the latest technologies developed for the computer and
telecommunications industries into advanced and cost-effective solutions for the general aviation, commercial air transport, United
States Department of Defense (“DoD”)/governmental and foreign military markets. This approach, combined with the Company’s
industry experience, is designed to enable IS&S to develop high-quality products and systems, to reduce product time to market,
and to achieve cost advantages over products offered by its competitors.
 
For several years the Company has been working with advances
in technology to provide pilots with more information to enhance both the safety and efficiency of flying, and has developed its
COCKPIT/IP® Cockpit Information Portal (“CIP”) product line, that incorporates proprietary technology, low cost,
reduced power consumption, decreased weight, and increased functionality. The Company has incorporated Electronic Flight Bag (“EFB”)
functionality, such as charting and mapping systems, into its FPDS product line.
 
The Company has developed an FMS that combines the savings long
associated with in-flight fuel optimization in enroute flight management combined with the precision of satellite-based navigation
required to comply with the regulatory environments of both domestic and international markets. The Company believes that the FMS,
alongside its FPDS and CIP product lines, is well suited to address market demand driven by certain regulatory mandates, new technologies,
and the high cost of maintaining aging and obsolete equipment on aircraft that will be in service for up to fifty years. The shift
in the regulatory and technological environment is illustrated by the dramatic increase in the number of Space Based Augmentation
System (“SBAS”) or Wide Area Augmentation System (“WAAS”) approach qualified airports, particularly as
realized through Localizer Performance with Vertical guidance (“LPV”) navigation procedures. Aircraft equipped with
the Company’s FMS, FPDS and SBAS/WAAS/LPV enabled navigator, will be qualified to land at such airports and will comply with
Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) mandates for Required Navigation Performance, and Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast
navigation. IS&S believes this will further increase the demand for the Company’s products. The Company’s FMS/FPDS
product line is designed for new production and retrofit applications into general aviation, commercial air transport and military
transport aircraft. In addition, the Company offers what we believe to be a state-of-the-art ISU, integrating the full functionality
of the primary and navigation displays into a small backup-powered unit. This ISU builds on the Company’s legacy air data
computer to form a complete next-generation cockpit display and navigation upgrade offering to the commercial and military markets.
 
The Company has developed and received certification from the
FAA on its NextGen Flight Deck featuring its ThrustSense® Integrated PT6 Autothrottle (“ThrustSense® Autothrottle”)
for retrofit in the Pilatus PC-12. The NextGen Flight Deck features Primary Flight and Multi-Function Displays and ISUs, as well
as an Integrated FMS and EFB System. The innovative avionics suite includes dual flight management systems, autothrottles, synthetic
vision and enhanced vision. The NextGen enhanced avionics suite is available for integration into other business aircraft with
Non-FADEC and FADEC engines.
 
The Company has developed, and in April 2019 received certification
from the FAA for, its ThrustSense® Autothrottle for retrofit in the King Air, dual turbo prop PT6 powered aircraft. The autothrottle
is designed to automate the power management for speed and power control. ThrustSense also ensures aircraft envelope protection
and engine protection during all phases of flight reducing pilot work load and increasing safety.
 
More recently, on December 9, 2019 the Company received certification
from the FAA for a safety mode feature during an engine-out condition for its King Air ThrustSense® Auto throttle.
 
We believe the ThrustSense® Autothrottle is innovative in
that it is the first autothrottle developed for a turbo prop that allows a pilot to automatically control the power setting of
the engine. The autothrottle computes and controls appropriate power levels reducing overall pilot workload. The system computes
thrust, holds selected speed/torque, and implements appropriate speed and engine limit protection. When engaged by the pilot, the
autothrottle system adjusts the throttles automatically to achieve and hold the selected airspeed guarded by a torque/temperature
limit mode. The autothrottle system takes full advantage of the integrated cockpit utilizing weight and balance information for
optimal control settings and enabling safety functions like a turbulence control mode.
 

 20 
 

 
The Company sells to both the OEM and the retrofit markets.
Customers include various OEMs, commercial air transport carriers and corporate/general aviation companies, DoD and its commercial
contractors, aircraft operators, aircraft modification centers, government agencies, and foreign militaries. Occasionally, IS&S
sells its products directly to DoD; however, the Company sells its products primarily to commercial customers for end use in DoD
programs. Sales to defense contractors are generally made on commercial terms, although some of the termination and other provisions
of government contracts are applicable to these contracts. The Company’s retrofit projects are generally pursuant to either
a direct contract with a customer or a subcontract with a general contractor to a customer (including government agencies).
 
Customers have been and may continue to be affected by changes
in economic conditions both in the United States and abroad. Such changes may cause customers to curtail or delay their spending
on both new and existing aircraft. Factors that can impact general economic conditions and the level of spending by customers include,
but are not limited to, general levels of consumer spending, increases in fuel and energy costs, conditions in the real estate
and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors that affect
spending behavior. Furthermore, spending by government agencies may be reduced in the future if tax revenues decline, including
as a result of recently enacted tax reform legislation in the United States. If customers curtail or delay their spending or are
forced to declare bankruptcy or liquidate their operations because of adverse economic conditions, the Company’s revenues
and results of operations would be affected adversely. However, the Company believes that, in adverse economic conditions, customers
that may have otherwise elected to purchase newly manufactured aircraft may be interested instead in retrofitting existing aircraft
as a cost-effective alternative, thereby creating a market opportunity for IS&S.
 
Cost of sales related to product sales is comprised of material
components and third-party avionics purchased from suppliers, direct labor, and overhead costs. Many of the components are standard,
although certain parts are manufactured to meet IS&S specifications. The overhead portion of cost of sales is comprised primarily
of salaries and benefits, building occupancy costs, supplies, and outside service costs related to production, purchasing, material
control, and quality control. Cost of sales includes warranty costs.
 
Cost of sales related to engineering development contracts (“EDC”)
sales is comprised of engineering labor, consulting services, and other costs associated with specific design and development projects.
These costs are incurred pursuant to contractual arrangements and are accounted for typically as contract costs within cost of
sales with the reimbursement accounted for as a sale in accordance with the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Company
funded research and development (“R&D”) expenditures relate to internally-funded efforts towards the development
of new products and the improvement of existing products. These costs are expensed as incurred and reported as R&D expenses.
The Company intends to continue investing in the development of new products that complement current product offerings and to expense
associated R&D costs as they are incurred.
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses consist of sales,
marketing, business development, professional services, salaries and benefits for executive and administrative personnel, facility
costs, recruiting, legal, accounting, bad debt expense and other general corporate expenses.
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
 
The discussion and analysis of financial condition and consolidated
results of operations are based upon the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated
financial statements requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses,
and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, IS&S management evaluates its estimates based
upon historical experience and various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable in the circumstances, the results of
which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from
other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
 
The Company believes that its critical accounting policies affect
its more significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. The Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 contains a discussion of these critical accounting policies. There
have been no significant changes in the Company’s critical accounting policies since September 30, 2019. See also Note
1 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three-months period ending December 31, 2019 as set forth
herein.
 

 21 
 

 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE AND
NINE MONTHS ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018
 
The following table sets forth the statements of operations
data expressed as a percentage of total net sales for the periods indicated (some items may not add due to rounding):
 

 

 22 
 

 
Three Months Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to the Three
Months Ended December 31, 2018
 
Net
sales. Net sales were $4,511,428 for the three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to $3,977,650 for the three months
ended December 31, 2018, an increase of 13.4%. Product sales increased $683,185 in the three months ended December 31, 2019 compared
to the three months ended December 31, 2018, and EDC sales decreased $149,407 from the same period in the prior year. Product sales
for the three months ended December 31, 2019 increased from the same period in the prior year primarily because of increased customer
service shipments to commercial transport customers, the DoD and military subcontractors. The decrease in EDC sales in the current
year period was primarily the result of completing a development contract for a new F-5 air data computer for the U.S. Navy.
 
Cost
of sales. Cost of sales increased $97,934, or 5.4%, to $1,909,781, or 42.3% of net sales, in the three months ended
December 31, 2019, compared to $1,811,847 or 45.6% of net sales, in the three months ended December 31, 2018. The increase in cost
of sales was primarily the result of an increase in product sales volume for the three months ended December 31, 2019 compared
to the three months ended December 31, 2018. The Company’s overall gross margin was 57.7% and 54.4% for the quarters ended
December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. This increase in overall gross margin was primarily the result of a change in sales mix.
 
Research
and development. R&D expense increased $70,243, or 11.8%, to $666,615, or 14.8% of net sales, in the three months
ended December 31, 2019 from $596,372, or 15.0% of net sales, in the three months ended December 31, 2018. The increase
in R&D expense in the quarter was primarily the result of a higher proportion of efforts focused upon internal projects rather
than EDC programs, whose costs are reflected in cost of sales rather than as R&D expense.
 
Selling,
general, and administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $229,858 to $1,703,274 in the
three months ended December 31, 2019 from $1,473,416 in the three months ended December 31, 2018. The increase in selling, general,
and administrative expense in the three months period was primarily the result of increased commissions and trade show related
expenses. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 37.8% of net sales in the three
months ended December 31, 2019 from 37.0% of net sales in the three months ended December 31, 2018.
 
Interest
income. Interest income increased by $57,318 in the three months ended December 31, 2019 from $21,552 in the three
months ended December 31, 2018, mainly a result of higher interest rates in the current year period compared to the same
period in the prior year.
 
Other
income. Other income is mainly composed of royalties earned and decreased marginally by $4,574 to $17,280 in the three
months ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
 
Income
tax expense. No income tax expense was recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. The effective tax rate was 0% for the three months ended December
31, 2019 and 2018, respectively and differs from the statutory tax rate primarily due to net operating loss realization. This loss
realization both decreased the deferred tax asset and the valuation allowance. For the three months ended December 31, 2019 the
valuation allowance decreased by approximately $55,000 to $3,867,777 and is recorded against all of its federal and state deferred
tax assets.
 
Net
income. The Company reported net income for the three months ended December 31, 2019 of $327,908 compared to net income
of $139,421 for the three months ended December 31, 2018. On a diluted basis, the net income per share was $0.02 for the three
months ended December 31, 2019 compared to net income per share of $0.01 for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
 

 23 
 

 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
The following table highlights key financial measurements of
the Company:
 
 

 

 

 

(1)  Excludes
contract liabilities
(2)  The sum
of cash and cash equivalents plus accounts receivable, divided by current liabilities
(3)  Current
assets divided by current liabilities
 
The Company’s principal source of liquidity has been
cash flows from current year operations and cash accumulated from prior years’ operations. Cash is used principally to
finance inventory, accounts receivable, and payroll. Apart from what has been disclosed above, management is not aware of any
trends, events or uncertainties that have had or are likely to have a material impact on our liquidity, financial condition
and capital resources.
 
Operating activities
 
Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended
December 31, 2019 resulted primarily from increases in accounts receivable of $628,212 and inventories of $201,769, offset by an
increase in accrued expenses of $218,758 and funding from net income of $327,908.
 
Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended
December 31, 2018 resulted primarily from a decreases in accounts payable of $490,000 and contract liability of $190,000, offset
by an increase in accrued expenses of $287,000, funding from net income of $139,000 and a decrease in accounts receivable of $231,000.
 
Investing activities
 
Cash used in investing activities was approximately $17,429
and $39,775 for each of the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively and consisted primarily of the purchase
of computer equipment.
 
Financing activities
 
There was no net cash used by financing activities for each
of the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.
 
Summary
 
Future capital requirements depend upon numerous factors, including
market acceptance of the Company’s products, the timing and rate of expansion of business, acquisitions, joint ventures and
other factors. IS&S has experienced increases in expenditures since its inception and anticipates that expenditures will continue
in the foreseeable future. The Company believes that its cash and cash equivalents will provide sufficient capital to fund operations
for at least the next twelve months. However, the Company may need to develop and introduce new or enhanced products, respond to
competitive pressures, invest in or acquire businesses or technologies, or respond to unanticipated requirements or developments.
If insufficient funds are available, the Company may not be able to introduce new products or compete effectively.
 

 24 
 

 
Backlog
 
Backlog represents the value of contracts
and purchase orders received, less sales recognized to date on those contracts and purchase orders. Backlog activity for the three
months ended December 31, 2019:
 

 
At December 31, 2019, the majority of the Company’s backlog
is expected to be filled within the next twelve months. To the extent new business orders do not continue to equal or exceed sales
recognized in the future from the Company’s existing backlog, future operating results may be impacted negatively.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 
The Company has no relationships with unconsolidated entities
or financial partnerships, such as Special Purpose Entities or Variable Interest Entities, established for the purpose of facilitating
off-balance sheet arrangements or other limited purposes.
 
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk
 
The
Company’s operations are exposed to market risks primarily as a result of changes in interest rates. The Company does not
use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. The Company’s exposure to market risk for changes
in interest rates relates to its cash equivalents. The Company’s cash equivalents consist of funds invested in money market
accounts, which bear interest at a variable rate. The Company does not participate in interest rate hedging. Cash balances are
maintained with two major banks. Balances on deposit with certain money market accounts and operating accounts may exceed the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation limits. A change in interest rates earned on the cash equivalents would impact interest income and
cash flows but would not impact the fair market value of the related underlying instruments. Assuming that the balances during
the three months ended December 31, 2019 were to remain constant and the Company did not act to alter the existing interest
rate sensitivity, a hypothetical 1% increase in variable interest rates would have affected interest income by approximately $56,000
with a resulting impact on cash flows of approximately $56,000 for the three months ended December 31, 2019.
 
Item 4. Controls and Procedures
 
(a)        We
carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer
and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such
term is defined under Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act as of December 31, 2019. Based on that evaluation, our
chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that these controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable
assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded,
processed, summarized, and reported, within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission
and (ii) accumulated and communicated to the issuer’s management, including its principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
 
(b)        There
were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company’s most
recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting.
 

 25 
 

 
PART II–OTHER INFORMATION
 
 Item 1. Legal Proceedings
 
In the ordinary course of business, the Company is at times
subject to various legal proceedings and claims. The Company does not believe any such matters that are currently pending will,
individually or in the aggregate, have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position.
 
 Item 1A. Risk Factors
 
There are no material changes to the risk factors described
under Item 1A of the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2019.
 
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use
of Proceeds
 
None
 
 Item 3. Defaults upon Senior Securities
 
None
 
 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
 
Not applicable
 
 Item 5. Other Information
 
None
 
 Item 6. Exhibits 
 
(a)  Exhibits
 

31.1Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to
Rule 13a-14(a) (1)

 

31.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to
Rule 13a-14(a) (1)

 

32.1Certification Pursuant to U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted
Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (2)

 

101.INSXBRL Instance Document (1)


101.SCHXBRL Taxonomy Extension Scheme Document (1)


101.CALXBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
(1)


101.DEFXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
(1)


101.LABXBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document (1)


101.PREXBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
(1)

 

 
(1)    Filed herewith
 
(2)    Furnished herewith
 

 26 
 

 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


 
INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS AND SUPPORT, INC.

 
 
 

 
 
 

Date: February 7, 2020
By:     
/s/ RELLAND WINAND

 
 
RELLAND WINAND

 
 
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

 

 27 

 





